Press release NOT FOR RELEASE, PUBLICATION OR DISTRIBUTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART, DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY, IN THE UNITED STATES, AUSTRALIA, CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, HONG KONG, JAPAN OR ANY OTHER JURISDICTION WHERE SUCH RELEASE, PUBLICATION OR DISTRIBUTION WOULD BE UNLAWFUL OR WOULD REQUIRE REGISTRATION OR ANY OTHER MEASURES. Press release April 25, 2017 Pareto Securities has notified Isofol Medical AB (publ) (“Isofol” or the “Company”) that stabilisation measures regarding the Company’s shares have been taken In connection with the offering to acquire newly issued shares in Isofol and the listing on Nasdaq First North Premier (the “Offering”), Pareto Securities, in its capacity as stabilisation manager, may carry out transactions aimed at supporting the market price of the Company’s shares at a level higher than what might otherwise have prevailed in the market. Such stabilization transactions may be effected on any securities market, over- the-counter (OTC) market or otherwise, at any time during the period starting on the date of commencement of trading in the Company’s shares on Nasdaq First North Premier and ending 30 calendar days thereafter. However, Pareto Securities has no obligation to undertake any stabilization. Stabilization, if undertaken, may be discontinued at any time and without prior notice. Pareto Securities has announced that stailisation measures have been taken (in accordance with Article 3.2(d) of the EU Market Abuse Regulation) on Nasdaq First North Permier in accordance with what is set out below. Stabilisation information Issuer: Isofol Medical AB (publ) Security: Shares (SE0009581051) Offering size (shares): 14,828,000 Over-allotment option (shares): 1,482,800 Offering price (SEK): 29.00 Ticker: ISOFOL Stabilisation manager: Pareto Securities Stabilisation transactions Date Quantity (# shares) Price (high) Price (low) Price (average) Currency Market place 2017-04-13 38,925 27.3 26.6 27.1159 SEK Nasdaq First North Premier 2017-04-18 90,000 27.3 26.5 26.8192 SEK Nasdaq First North Premier 2017-04-19 6,700 27.4 26.0 26.8931 SEK Nasdaq First North Premier 2017-04-20 10,480 26.1 25.1 25.8910 SEK Nasdaq First North Premier 2017-04-21 14,420 25.9 25.2 25.4794 SEK Nasdaq First North Premier 2017-04-24 8,000 25.8 23.6 24.5500 SEK Nasdaq First North Premier 2017-04-25 5,300 24.2 22.0 23.9057 SEK Nasdaq First North Premier Pareto Securities has conducted stabilization transactions comprising in total 1,468,426 shares as per 2017-04-25, including previously announced stabilisation transactions.For additional information, please contact: Anders Rabbe, Managing Director, Isofol Mob: +46 70 764 65 00 Email: anders.rabbe@isofolmedical.com Jan-Eric Österlund, Executive Chairman, Isofol Mob: +44 77 853 68 155 Email: jan-eric@osterlund.co.uk About Isofol Medical AB (publ) Isofol is a clinical stage oncology company developing Modufolin® as a first-line treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer and as a rescue drug after high-dose methotrexate treatment in osteosarcoma. Isofol aims to replace the existing folate-based compounds leucovorin and levoleucovorin, which today are considered the standard treatment within these indications. Through an exclusive license agreement, Isofol Medical holds all rights to commercialising Modufolin® globally for cancer treatment with access to the unique patented production process and the production capabilities of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany. About Modufolin® Modufolin® (active ingredient [6R]-5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate), is a novel folate-based compound developed to increase the efficacy and reduce the side effects of antimetabolites used in cancer treatment. It is the key active metabolite of the widely used folate-based drugs leucovorin and levoleucovorin, and therefore does not require metabolic activation. This makes Modufolin® suitable for all patients irrespective of their genetical capacity to activate folates, and it is currently being evaluated in two clinical Phase II studies. Third most common cancer Colorectal cancer is the third most common cancer, affecting both men and women, and is the third leading cause of cancer-related death. Approximately 1.35 million people per year are diagnosed with the disease worldwide. In the US, Western Europe and Japan, where an estimated 550,000 patients are diagnosed with colorectal cancer, about 365,000 patients annually receive a treatment regimen including 5-FU and the folate leucovorin or levoleucovorin, which Isofol is aiming to replace with Modufolin®. Important information This announcement is not and does not form a part of any offer for sale of securities. Copies of this announcement are not being made and may not be distributed or sent into the United States, Australia, Canada, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Japan or any other jurisdiction in which such distribution would be unlawful or would require registration or other measures. The securities referred to in this announcement have not been and will not be registered under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and accordingly may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act and in accordance with applicable U.S. state securities laws. The Company does not intend to register any offering in the United States or to conduct a public offering of securities in the United States. Any Offering of securities referred to in this announcement will only be made by means of a prospectus. This announcement is not a prospectus for the purposes of Directive 2003/71/EC (together with any applicable implementing measures in any Member State, the “Prospectus Directive”). Investors should not invest in any securities referred to in this announcement except on the basis of information contained in the aforementioned prospectus. In any EEA Member State, other than Sweden that has implemented the Prospectus Directive, this communication is only addressed to and is only directed at qualified investors in that Member State within the meaning of the Prospectus Directive, i.e., only to investors who can receive the offer without an approved prospectus in such EEA Member State. This communication is only being distributed to and is only directed at persons in the United Kingdom that are (i) investment professionals falling within Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005, as amended (the “Order”) or (ii) high net worth entities, and other persons to whom this announcement may lawfully be communicated, falling within Article 49(2)(a) to (d) of the Order (all such persons together being referred to as “Relevant Persons”). This communication must not be acted on or relied on by persons who are not Relevant Persons. Any investment or investment activity to which this communication relates is available only to Relevant Persons and will be engaged in only with Relevant Persons. Persons distributing this communication must satisfy themselves that it is lawful to do so.Matters discussed in this announcement may constitute forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical facts and may be identified by words such as “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “intends,” “estimate,” “will,” “may,” "continue," “should” and similar expressions. The forward-looking statements in this release are based upon various assumptions, many of which are based, in turn, upon further assumptions. Although the Company believes that these assumptions were reasonable when made, these assumptions are inherently subject to significant known and unknown risks, uncertainties, contingencies and other important factors which are difficult or impossible to predict and are beyond its control. Such risks, uncertainties, contingencies and other important factors could cause actual events to differ materially from the expectations expressed or implied in this release by such forward-looking statements. The information, opinions and forward-looking statements contained in this announcement speak only as at its date, and are subject to change without notice.
Press release 2013-02-25 09:00 Vitec enters Qatar market with energy flow simulation tool District cooling giant Marafeq Qatar has signed an order with Vitec to use NetSim Epsilon to analyze their district cooling grid. Marafeq Qatar has witnessed rapid grid expansions with continued expansion expected. For district cooling companies, grid calculations are the technical backbone to support decisions about pump sizing, grid design, and developing operational strategies that will properly serve the high-end customers that will live and work in Lusail City. A large grid like at Lusail City requires a fast and accurate simulation tool, such as NetSim Epsilon, to monitor grid calculations. With the 2012 release of the popular NetSim Epsilon system, Vitec has made an already user-friendly and accurate tool even better. Calculations once almost exclusively owned by consultants can now be performed and analyzed in house, creating a better understanding of the grid dynamics. - "As the Lusail City develops and changes, we need a robust hydraulic simulation tool to analyze, evaluate, and prove we can serve our customers," says Robert Miller, Technical Specialist for District Cooling at Marafeq Qatar. "NetSim Epsilon has the features and capabilities necessary for our large and complex system and to provide technical input to aid commercial decisions." - Jerker Vallbo, Managing Director at Vitec Energy AB notes, "We are pleased that Marafeq Qatar has chosen NetSim Epsilon as their hydraulic simulation tool. Marafeq are a major business partner who will help solidify Vitec's role in an important area of the world." Marafeq Qatar Marafeq Qatar is a utility company providing utility and infrastructure development along with O&M services for real estate developments. Marafeq is the only infrastructure company in Qatar capable of providing complete solutions from utility planning to implementation for district cooling, pneumatic waste, waste water, and gas distribution. As a wholly-owned subsidiary of Qatari Diar, Marafeq has sufficient financial strength to offer BOO(T) solutions to its customers in addition to O&M and other development services. Lusail City’s district cooling infrastructure will eventually include approximately 320,000 TR production serving more than 1,000 customers through a single network of 173 km (supply and return pipe). The Marina District Cooling Plant will be the first of four chiller plants constructed. Vitec – Business unit Energy Vitec Energy develops, markets and sells IT-solutions for Energy Companies. The system portfolio includes demand load forecast for electricity and district cooling/heating, wind power productions forecasts and geographical information systems (GIS) for electricity and district cooling/heating utilities. Vitec Energy AB has a turnover of 21 million SEK per year and is a part of Vitec Software Group AB (publ). For more information, contact Jerker Vallbo, Vitec , Managing Director Vitec Energy, T: +46 70 346 66 58 Robert Miller, Techniqal Specialist at Marafeq Qatar, T: +974 4012 0132 Vitec Software Group AB (publ) is a publicly traded software company that offers its own industry-specific business software. Vitec focuses on sectors where there are specific needs that cannot be effectively met by providers of general business systems. The company has annual sales of about 390 million SEK and has about 300 employees. Vitec is listed on Nasdaq OMX, Stockholm. www.vitec.se Main office: PO Box 7965, S-907 19 Umeå, Sweden. Switchboard: +46 9 90-15 49 00, Fax +46 90-15 49 07
PRESS RELEASE P.O. Box 70376 Office address: Tel +46 (0)8 440 16 00 Corp. Reg. No. 556528-2752 SE-107 24 Stockholm, Sweden Klarabergsviadukten 70 A5 Fax +46 (0)8 503 826 49 Registered office Stockholm, Sweden Morten Falkenberg appointed new President of Nobia The Nobia Board of Directors has appointed Morten Falkenberg as the new President and CEO. He will take office not later than 15 October 2010 and will succeed Preben Bager who previously announced his intention to step down during the year. Morten Falkenberg, who is 51 years of age, joins Nobia from Electrolux where he has worked in the role of Executive Vice President, Head of Floor Care and Small Appliances for the past four years. He previously held positions at the Carlsberg Group, TDC Mobile and the Coca‐Cola Company. Morten Falkenberg worked at Coca‐Cola for 13 years, serving as President of the beverage operations in Sweden (1996‐1998) and subsequently as President of the Nordic and Baltic regions. “The Board of Directors is delighted with the appointment of Morten Falkenberg as the new President of Nobia. Morten has the experience and characteristics required to implement the strategic and organisational changes underway at Nobia,” said Hans Larsson, Chairman of the Nobia Board. A photograph of Morten Falkenberg is available from the image bank at www.nobia.com. Nobia AB (publ) 27 April 2010 For further information, contact: Hans Larsson, Board Chairman Morten Falkenberg, incoming CEO Ingrid Yllmark, IRO Telephone +46 8 440 16 00 or +46 708 65 59 00 Nobia develops and sells kitchens through some 20 strong brands in Europe, including Hygena in France, HTH in the Nordic countries, Magnet in the UK and Poggenpohl globally. Nobia generates profitability by combining economies of scale with attractive kitchen offerings. The Group has approximately 8,000 employees and net sales of slightly more than SEK 15 billion. The Nobia share is listed on NASDAQ OMX Stockholm under the short name NOBI. Website: www.nobia.com. Read more about the company under “About Nobia.” Financial information can be found under “Investors.”
1 Isofol Medical AB, Biotech Center, Arvid Wallgrens Backe 20, SE-413 46 Gothenburg, Sweden February 8 2018 Isofol reports successful outcome from the scientific advice with the EMA Isofol Medical AB (publ) has received positive feedback in scientific advice from the European Medicines Agency (EMA) regarding its candidate drug arfolitixorin (Modufolin®) intended for the treatment of advanced colorectal (colon) cancer. Thereby the significant parameters for the pivotal phase III study has been agreed upon with both the EMA and the FDA for the Marketing Authorisation Application (MAA) and a New Drug Application (NDA) for arfolitixorin (Modufolin®). The recent successful outcome of the scientific advice from the EMA and the successful completion of the End- of-Phase II (EOP2) meeting with the FDA marks the beginning of the phase III study, ISO-CC-007, for arfolitixorin (Modufolin®) in first line (primary treatment) metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC). Consensus with the EMA and the FDA has now been reached on the significant parameters for this phase III study. Both the EMA and the FDA stated that they will accept the study to support a market registration, provided study results show a statistically significant improvement in tumour size reduction (ORR) and a clear benefit in progression free survival (PFS) in patients randomized to arfolitixorin (Modufolin®). The study is set to start in mid-2018 in the US and Europe and to be completed by 2020/2021 with an important interim analysis in 2019/2020. Anders Rabbe, CEO of Isofol Medical, commented: "We are of course very excited about the positive outcome of the End-of-Phase 2 Meeting with the FDA. Now, this has been followed by a successful scientific advice from EMA, confirming that we have a robust study design for a phase III trial with our drug candidate arfolitixorin. With support from both EMA and FDA, we are now very confident to initiate the final stages of planning our registration study with arfolitixorin. This will be our most important step to date in bringing arfolitixorin towards a potential market registration”. Most important outcomes from the EMA and FDA interactions • Objective response rate (ORR), the proportion of patients with tumour size reduction, will be the primary endpoint in the phase III study. The key secondary endpoint will be progression free survival (PFS), i.e. time to tumour growth or death. • The overall study design and study protocol, the sample size of 440 patients and the outline of the statistical plan are confirmed too. Isofol is now seeking a Special Protocol Assessment (SPA) with the FDA, confirming the specific targets to be met in the trial. Following that Isofol intends to seek regulatory approval for an immediate start of the ISO-CC-007 study with arfolitixorin (Modufolin®) in both the US and Europe. For more information, please contact: Anders Rabbe, CEO, Isofol Medical AB (publ) E-mail: anders.rabbe@isofolmedical.com Phone: +46 (0)707 646 500 This information is information that Isofol Medical AB is obliged to make public pursuant to the EU Market Abuse Regulation. The information was submitted for publication, through the agency of the contact person(s) set out above, on 8 February 2018, at 08:00 CET.2 Isofol Medical AB, Biotech Center, Arvid Wallgrens Backe 20, SE-413 46 Gothenburg, Sweden About arfolitixorin (Modufolin®) Arfolitixorin (Modufolin®) is developed to increase the efficacy of the cytotoxic agent 5-fluorouracil (5FU) and as a rescue drug after high-dose methotrexate treatment. Arfolitixorin (Modufolin®) is suitable for all patients irrespective of their capacity to activate folates since it doesn’t require metabolic activation to exert its effect. The active ingredient in arfolitixorin (Modufolin®), [6R]-5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate, is the key active metabolite of the widely used folate-based drugs leucovorin and levoleucovorin. About Isofol Medical AB (publ) Isofol Medical AB (publ) is a drug development company within the field of oncology developing arfolitixorin (Modufolin®), primarily as a treatment for advanced colorectal cancer and as a rescue drug after high-dose methotrexate treatment in osteosarcoma (bone cancer). Through a worldwide exclusive license agreement, Isofol holds the rights to develop and commercialise arfolitixorin (Modufolin®) within oncology with access to the unique patented production process and the production capabilities of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany. Isofol Medical AB is traded on the Nasdaq First North Premier. Certified Adviser is FNCA Sweden AB. www.isofol.se
1 Isofol Medical AB, Biotech Center, Arvid Wallgrens Backe 20, SE-413 46 Gothenburg, Sweden Isofol to present at the 10th Annual Biotech Showcase Conference January 4 2017 Isofol Medical AB (publ), a clinical oncology company, announces that Chief Executive Officer Anders Rabbe and Chief Commercial Officer Sven Erickson will present at the 10th Annual Biotech Showcase Conference, to be held during the 8-10th of January in San Francisco, USA. The event is a networking conference dedicated to providing biotechnology companies with an opportunity to meet with, investors and pharmaceutical executives, during the course of the largest annual healthcare investor conference, the 36th Annual J.P. Morgan Healthcare Conference. Sven Erickson, CCO of Isofol Medical, commented: "The JP Morgan Healthcare event and Biotech Showcase Conference are the centers of pharma innovation and business, an excellent environment for discussions with partners and investors about next generation colorectal cancer treatment and the upcoming pivotal efficacy trial of Modufolin®(Arfolitixorin). We have an exciting agenda, meeting both with potential partners and investors.” Presentation information Venue: Hilton, Union Square, San Francisco Date: Wednesday, 10 January 2018 Time: 10:00 a.m. PST Conference Hall: Yosemite - A For more information, please contact: Anders Rabbe, CEO, Isofol Medical AB E-mail: anders.rabbe@isofolmedical.com Phone: +46 (0)707 646 500 Sven Erickson, CCO, Isofol Medical AB Email: sven.erickson@isofolmedical.com Phone:(+46)722 006 090 About Modufolin® Modufolin® (Arfolitixorin), is a novel folate-based compound developed to increase the efficacy and reduce the side effects of antimetabolites used in cancer treatment. It is the key active metabolite of the widely used folate- based drugs leucovorin and levoleucovorin. As Modufolin® does not require metabolic activation to exert its effect, Modufolin® is suitable for all patients irrespective of their capacity to activate folates. Modufolin® is currently being evaluated in a clinical Phase II study. About Isofol Medical AB Isofol Medical AB (publ) is a clinical stage oncology company developing Modufolin®(Arfolitixorin) as a first-line treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer and as a rescue drug after high-dose methotrexate treatment in osteosarcoma. Through a worldwide exclusive license agreement, Isofol Medical holds the rights to commercialise Modufolin®(Arfolitixorin) with access to the unique patented production process and the production capabilities of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany. Isofol Medical AB (publ) is traded on the Nasdaq First North Premier. Certified Adviser is FNCA Sweden AB. www.isofol.se
Kista June 8, 2018 Cortus Energy produces and uses its own vehicle gas RNG/SNG for the first time Cortus Energy AB (publ) ("Cortus Energy" or "Company") has now completed the Company's latest test campaign at the Köping test plant. The results from the campaign shows that it is possible to produce vehicle gas RNG/SNG by gasifying local low-grade feedstocks with WoodRoll®. Renewable vehicle gas (RNG/SNG) is an important mean in fulfilling the objective that, as in Sweden, the vehicle fleet should be independent of fossil fuels by 2030. Today, renewable vehicle gas is produced primarily by the anaerobic digestion of, for example, food waste whose potential is limited due to the raw material supply. The forest and its waste and by-products have a significantly greater potential to produce RNG/SNG in industrial scale to a mass market. Cortus Energy's patented process WoodRoll® gasifies forest fuels and generates a renewable energy gas converted to RNG/SNG at vehicle gas standards for cars, trucks and buses. In the latest test campaign at Cortus Energy's test facility in Köping, the renewable energy gas from WoodRoll® has been converted in two-stages to vehicle gas. The energy gas from WoodRoll® has been transformed into methane and carbon dioxide in a catalytic process and in a subsequent step, carbon dioxide has been separated and the vehicle gas has been pressurized for refuel one of the Company's own gas cars. The catalytic process is developed by Karlsruhe Institute of Technology in a European project with Cortus Energy as an industrial partner. Cortus Energy owns the market rights of this catalytic process. The campaign is part of the Life + project, which is supported by BiogasExpose with Biogasöst as coordinator. This project aims at showing the production of vehicle gas through gasification of low-grade local feedstocks in Eastern Sweden.Kista June 8, 2018 "We have now shown how the energy gas from WoodRoll® can be converted into vehicle gas RNG/SNG. This is an important milestone to be able to enter the market for automotive gas and biomethane to the natural gas grid. The catalytic process we have been part in developing is based on mass-produced components, from the automotive industry, to get cost-effectiveness in the capacity range WoodRoll® operates in", says Rolf Ljunggren, CEO Cortus Energy.
ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB Press release, 2017-12-28 ExpreS2ion’s core platform patent allowed in India Hørsholm, Denmark, December 28, 2017 – Today, ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB and its affiliate ExpreS2ion Biotechnologies ApS (“ExpreS2ion") announce that the company’s patent application “Improved Protein Expression System”, that covers the entire ExpreS2 platform, has been allowed in India and will be granted with expiry June 12, 2029. “Obtaining a strong patent protection in India, one of the world’s largest markets for vaccine technology, is an important step towards our goal to have the ExpreS2 platform protected in all major markets and consolidate our position as a global player. We are now close to reaching this goal," says Steen Klysner, CEO of ExpreS2ion. The patent application “Improved Protein Expression System” has been filed in 15 different countries covering the company’s major markets. The patent has been issued in the United States, South Korea, Japan, Australia and China, and validated in several EU countries following approval by the European Patent Office. Certified Adviser Sedermera Fondkommission is appointed as Certified Adviser for ExpreS2ion. For further information about ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB, please contact: Dr. Steen Klysner, CEO Telephone: +45 2062 9908 E-mail: sk@expres2ionbio.com This press release contains information that ExpreS2ion is obligated to make public pursuant to the EU Market Abuse Regulation. The information was submitted for publication through the agency of the contact person set out above on December 28, 2017. About ExpreS2ion ExpreS2ion Biotechnologies ApS is a fully owned Danish subsidiary of ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB with company register number 559033-3729. ExpreS2ion’s unique proprietary platform technology, ExpreS2, is designed to enable accelerated, cost effective development and robust production of complex proteins for new vaccines and diagnostics. Since founded in 2010, more than 250 proteins involved in e.g. malaria and Zika were produced in collaborations with research institutions and companies with a superior efficiency and success rate. ExpreS2ion also develops competitive virus-like-particle based vaccines through its joint venture AdaptVac, which was founded in 2017.
Acconeer AB IDEON Gateway Scheelevägen 27 SE-223 63 Lund, Sweden info@acconeer.com +46 72 5838428 www.acconeer.com Mobile Sensor Technology Company Acconeer AB Closes SEK 60 Million Investment Round Funds will enable completion of its 3D sensor A1 for commercial launch and mass production Lund, Sweden Acconeer AB, a leading innovation company in the area of mobile sensors, announces that it has closed a SEK 60 million investment round. The new capital will be used to fund the completion of Acconeer’s 3D sensor A1 for commercial launch and mass production, which is planned for early 2017. Lars Lindell, CEO of Acconeer AB commented: “We are naturally very pleased with closing the investment round. Existing shareholders contributed with approximately 40% of the round leaving 60% for new investors. We have been able to add some industry veterans such as Jörgen Lantto, former CEO of Fingerprint Cards and Bert Nordberg, former CEO and Chairman of Sony Mobile, and many leading positions within Ericsson, as investors in this very ambitious project. We now have enough funds to start the process of commercializing our ultra-low power and millimeter precision sensor. We have a very solid interest from customers and will also start shipping evaluation boards to customers for their evaluation”. Jörgen Lantto comments: “Acconeer is about to complete the development of a 3D sensor with great potential. I am very impressed with the technology and the team and I am looking forward to follow them developing a world-leading technology company”. About Acconeer Acconeer is a leading start-up company based in Lund, south Sweden, in Ideon, the country’s hottest region for wireless technologies. Acconeer is developing a truly leading ultra-low power, high precision 3D sensor which will revolutionize the way that mobile devices interpret their surroundings. Acconeer’s ultra-low power and millimeter precision sensor will be a robust and cost-effective solution for applications ranging from virtual reality and gaming to security and robot control. Information from the sensor can also be used to identify different materials, or for practical applications, such as taking measurements of your shirt size before you order online. These are just some examples of the wide range of possibilities of application areas for the sensor. Acconeer was founded in 2011 by the technology entrepreneurs Dr. Mikael Egard and Dr. Mats Ärlelid, together with Mårten Öbrink, Professor Lars-Erik Wernersson and Lund University.Acconeer AB IDEON Gateway Scheelevägen 27 SE-223 63 Lund, Sweden info@acconeer.com +46 72 5838428 www.acconeer.com For more information: www.acconeer.com Contact: Lars Lindell, CEO +46725838428
OrganoWood enters distribution agreement for the Baltic market OrganoClick's co-owned subsidiary OrganoWood has entered into a sales and distribution agreement with Osmo Baltic for the Baltic market (Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania). The agreement is valid for Osmo Baltic to sell and distribute OrganoWood's wooden products as well as OrganoWoods wood treatment products in the Baltic region. Currently OrganoWood is established through its own sales companies in Sweden, and Norway and has distribution agreements for its wooden products in Finland, Denmark, Germany and the UK. For its wood treatment products, OrganoWood is represented by distributors in Sweden, Finland, Denmark, the UK, and the Benelux countries. This has proven to be an expansion strategy that works very well. Osmo Baltic is a well established of wooden products and wood treatment products, and has sales offices in all three Baltic countries. The company is selling both to industrial customers as well as to consumers. Although being relatively small region, the Baltic states has a quite big wood industry with many companies working with the manufacturing of wooden houses and wooden products. - "We are very selective when choosing distributors internationally. They are very important partners for us and a key part of our international expansion strategy. We are really looking forward to see what Osmo Baltic can contribute to this expansion and in particular as the Baltic region has a strong industrial market ." says Jens Hamlin, CEO OrganoWood AB. The agreement with Osmo Baltic is a five year exclusive contract, stipulating annual minimum order volumes in order for the exclusivity to continue. ……………………………………………………………………………………………………….. For more information, please contact: Jens Hamlin, VD OrganoWood, Telefon: +46 72 250 21 79, Email: jens.hamlin@organowood.com ......................................................................................... About OrganoClick OrganoClick AB (publ) is a public Swedish cleantech company listed on Nasdaq First North. The company develops, produces and markets functional materials based on environmentally friendly fiber chemistry. Examples of products that are marketed by OrganoClick are the biocomposite material OrganoComp®, surface treatment and maintenance products for villa and property owners under the brand name BIOkleen®, biobased binder under the trade name OC-BioBinder™ and the flame and rot-resistant timber OrganoWood® (through the joint-venture OrganoWood AB). OrganoClick was founded in 2006 as a commercial spin-off company based on research performed at Stockholm University and the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences within environmentally friendly fiber chemistry. OrganoClick has won a number of prizes, such as "Sweden's Most Promising Start -up" and "Sweden's Best Environmental Innovation", and has also received a number of awards, such as the WWF "Climate Solver" award, listed as a SUSTAINIA100 company and has also appeared for two years on the Affärsvärldens and NyTekniks list of Sweden's top 33 hottest technology companies. OrganoClick has its head office, production and R&D located in Täby, north of Stockholm. OrganoClick's Certified Adviser on Nasdaq First North is Erik Penser Bank. The information in this press release contains information that OrganoClick AB (publ) is obliged to release according to the EU's market regulation law number 596/2014. The information was published, of the contact person above, 22 November 2018 at 16:50.
Pressmeddelande Östersund 2017-06-20 Diös Fastigheter owns and develops both commercial and residential properties in prioritized growth areas in northern Sweden. With a market value of approx. SEK 19 billion, a portfolio of 348 properties and a lettable area of 1,580,000 sq.m, our vision is to be the most active and sought-after landlord in our market. The properties are located from Borlänge to Luleå with its head office in Östersund. The company has since 2005 had a continuous growth in value in the property portfolio and the share is listed on Nasdaq OMX Stockholm, Mid Cap. Learn more about Diös on www.dios.se Diös Fastigheter AB (publ), Box 188, SE-831 22 Östersund | Phone: +46 770-33 22 00, info@dios.se, www.dios.se | Corp Id: 556501-1771 Diös Fastigheter in real estate transaction with Norrlandspojkarna Diös Fastigheter acquires two central located properties in Sundsvall and sells three industry properties in Birsta Sundsvall. The underlying property value of the acquisition amount to SEK 43 million and for the sale SEK 33 million. Change of possession will be on 1 September. The two acquired properties are one commercial property at Norrmalm in Sundsvall and one mixed property at Stenstaden in Sundsvall. The commercial property has an area of 1 600 square meters and the largest tenant is Engelska Skolan. The mixed property is recently renovated and contain both offices and apartments with an area of 1 100 square meters. The total of the full year income is SEK 3.5 million. The sold industry properties are situated in Birsta in Sundsvall with an area of 7 500 square meters. The full year rental income is SEK 4.4 million. The transaction takes form as company transaction and the underlying property value is in line with Diös most recent valuation. The results will be reported during the third quarter in 2017. – These acquisitions strenghten Diös alignment of focusing our property stock to the city center. This also gives us the opportunity to be part of developing the Norrmalm district and complete our properties in Stenstan with both housing and commercial facilities. Both acquisitions are in line with our long term strategy of creating a vivid city center, says Lars-Göran Dahl, Head of Business Development, Diös Fastigheter. – We exchange two central properties to industry properties at the well established district of Birsta. This fits well in our strategy of continuing developing industry and logistics properties outside the city center, says Håkan Andersson, CEO, Norrlandspojkarna. For more information please contact: Lars-Göran Dahl, Head of Business Development, Diös Fastigheter Telefon: 010-470 95 04 E-post: lars-goran.dahl@dios.se Håkan Andersson, CEO, Norrlandspojkarna Telefon: 060- 13 95 64 E-post: hakan@norrlandspojkarna.se This information is information that Diös Fastigheter AB]is obliged to make public pursuant to the EU Market Abuse Regulation. The information was submitted for publication, through the agency of the contact person set out above, at 06.45 CET on 20 June 2017.
Kista, May 2, 2016 Japanese Forest Energy and Cortus Energy have entered into an agreement on strategic cooperation Forest Energy (Kuni Umi Biomass Inc.) and Cortus Energy (Publ) today signed an agreement which marks the start for a strategic cooperation for the lucrative Japanese market for small scale electricity generation based on biomass. The earlier announced (April 19) preliminary agreement between Forest Energy and Cortus Energy has resulted in a firm agreement for a strategic cooperation to develop the Japanese market for small scale electricity generation based on biomass. The incentive systems for biomass based electricity generation in Japan is strong, probably the strongest in the world. Until now larger scale projects, above 5 MW of power, has been developed. Forest Energy has developed two such projects with a total capacity of 25 MW. Within the small scale segment, up to 2 MW, the incentives (20 years Feed in tariff) are the highest but proper technologies has until now been missing to realize this potential. Forest Energy has made an extensive search on different technologies. The WoodRoll® process has been found to be the technology with the highest potential and best fit for the Japanese opportunity. Forest Energy will use it experience and competence to identify and develop small scale projects that will use Cortus Energy’s unique gasification technology WoodRoll® to convert biomass to power. With projects financed on favorable conditions, Cortus Energy will have the opportunity to be co-owner. The strategic cooperation is based on realizing a first 2 MW electricity Pilot project, based on the modular 6 MW WoodRoll® plant. The pilot project will form the base for the future cooperation. The potential for the next coming 5 years is in the range of 25 projects. Forest Energy will order the basic design for the pilot project in June and an order for the Pilot project will follow within 12 months when the project site has been fully developed. Forest Energy works to obtain all needed permits, securing long term feedstock supply, 20 years feed in tariffs as well as a structures financing of each project. "We are excited to start the cooperation with Forest Energy that is a perfect partner who has critical competence and experience to successfully establish and develop biomass projects as well as structured project financing for the lucrative renewable electricity market in Japan.” says Rolf Ljunggren, CEO Cortus Energy. "We are delighted to work in partners with Cortus Energy to introduce its WoodRoll® technology in Japan. The technology offers not only a cost-effective solution to the small scale biomass market, but also the flexibility to produce green hydrogen, which we believe will become the new source of energy in the coming years. We are confident that our joint efforts will result in a successful and profitable cooperation between Sweden and Japan” says Shingo Numa, CEO Forest Energy.For further information, please contact: Rolf Ljunggren, CEO Tel: +46 (0) 8 588 866 30 www.cortusenergy.com About Cortus Energy Cortus Energy (Publ) offers cost-effective energy gas for power, industrial and automotive applications based on its patented WoodRoll technology. WoodRoll has great feedstock flexibility, which means that the process can utilize low-grade renewable feedstock without compromising processing performance. Cortus Energy's shares are traded on Nasdaq First North (Stockholm, Sweden). Mangold Fondkommission, phone +46 8-503 01 550, is the Company's Certified Adviser. About Forest Energy Forest Energy brings one-stop solution to biomass energy business in Japan. We develop, engineer, finance and operate biomass power plants. Today, we have two wood-fired biomass plants under management (5.75MW and 20.5MW). Currently, the company is registered under the name of Kuni Umi Biomass Inc, and change to Forest Energy will be completed in early May 2016. Forest Energy contact info@forestenergy.jp http://forestenergy.jp/
Smart Eye AB, Första Långgatan 28B, 413 27 Gothenburg, Sweden Tel: + 46 31 60 61 60 Fax: +46 31 701 05 15 E-mail: info@smarteye.se Gothenburg, January 9, 2018 Press release Smart Eye showcasing groundbreaking automotive eye‐tracking tech at CES 2018 Smart Eye, industry leading supplier of eye‐tracking technologies to the automotive industry, will showcase its latest Driver Monitoring Systems (DMS), High Precision Gaze tracking and Face ID technologies together with partners at the 2018 Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las Vegas. The demonstrations at CES follow upon 16 Smart Eye generated technology design wins, of which 14 in 2017 only. Together with a leading Tier 1 supplier, Smart Eye was recently chosen to deliver the second‐generation eye‐tracking system to a European premium vehicle manufacturer in a procurement for all car models of a production platform at the same time. The completed procurement has firmly established Smart Eye as the industry leading developer of technology that understand and interprets the driver and is one in the line of several now ongoing international procurements where global vehicle manufacturers are establishing supplier relationships for the first and second generation of driver monitoring systems. At CES 2018, Smart Eye will be showcasing its technology through advanced demonstrations with the Automotive Tier 1 suppliers Aptiv (formerly known as Delphi) and Visteon. Aptiv’s demonstration will be showcasing a production‐ready, state of the art Driver Monitoring System with safety features enabled by Smart Eye’s software. The Aptiv demonstration will be held at LVCC, North Plaza – NP‐1 and NP‐17. Visteon will be demonstrating a second‐generation multi‐camera solution with Face ID and Precision Gaze for HMI. The Visteon demonstration will be held at LVCC, Central Plaza ‐ CP‐20. Martin Krantz, CEO of Smart Eye, says: ”We are excited to showcase our technology together with leading partners at the 2018 CES. 2017 was the year when Smart Eyes technology was introduced to the market in first generation Driver Monitoring Systems and became part of the safety roadmap for the majority of cars through the Euro NCAP roadmap release. 2018 will be an even more thrilling year as Smart Eye’s Driver Monitoring technology and Smart AI solution will provide technology supporting the introduction of Head Up Displays with Augmented reality functions, convenience features based on Face ID and safety applications that reads the Driver state and adapts the experience accordingly.” For more information Martin Krantz, CEO Smart Eye AB Phone: +46 70‐329 26 98 Email: martin.krantz@smarteye.se About Smart Eye Smart Eye was founded to bridge the gap between man and machine for a better tomorrow by developing ground breaking eye tracking technology that understands, assists and predicts human intentions and actions. Through combining deep, technical knowledge with playful creativity, Smart Eye consist of two business units. Its research instruments offer high performance in complex, real‐world situations, paving the way for new insights in aerospace, aviation, automotive, psychology, neuroscience, medical and clinical research. Business unit Applied Solutions are embedded in next generation vehicles, helping the automotive industry take another step towards autonomous vehicles. Founded in 1999, Smart Eye has offices in Gothenburg, Sweden and Michigan, USA as well as having partners, resellers and distributors in Europe, USA and APAC. Its solutions are used by more than 700 clients all over the world by leading research groups, brands and labs such as US Air Force, Nasa, BMW, Lockheed Martin, Audi, Boeing, Volvo, GM, and many more. http://smarteye.se/ Smart Eye is listed on First North. Erik Penser is Certified Adviser and can be reached at +46‐8‐463 8000.
Press Release PR 0748 – 01 en EU/US BONESUPPORT appoints Michael Diefenbeck as Head of Research & Development, Medical and Clinical Affairs Lund, Sweden, 18:30 CET, 18 July 2018 – BONESUPPORT™, an emerging leader in orthobiologics for the management of bone voids, announces that Michael Diefenbeck MD PhD, BONESUPPORT’s Chief Medical Officer, has been appointed to assume a broader role as Head of R&D, Medical and Clinical Affairs. Emil Billbäck, CEO of BONESUPPORT, commented: “We are pleased to announce the expansion of Michael’s role to head of R&D, Medical and Clinical Affairs, where his experience at BONESUPPORT, both as Chief Medical Office and prior to this as an independent clinical advisor, as well as his clinical experience as an orthopedic surgeon specializing in trauma care and bone infections, will continue to be extremely valuable. We remain focused on progressing FORTIFY to allow for a planned CERAMENT® G PMA submission in the US in 2020, generating clinical data in our key target indications, as well as broadening our product offering through new CERAMENT® formulations. Longer term we are looking to add innovative products with potential to be market disruptive, selected from our innovative pipeline.” Jerry Chang, Executive Vice President of R&D, is leaving the Company and will transfer to a role as independent consultant, where he will be supporting BONESUPPORT in certain projects. Both changes are effective immediately. About BONESUPPORT™ BONESUPPORT is an innovative and rapidly growing commercial stage orthobiologics company, based in Lund, Sweden. The Company develops and commercializes innovative injectable bio- ceramic bone graft substitutes that remodel to the patient’s own bone and have the capability of eluting drugs directly into the bone void. BONESUPPORT’s bio-ceramic bone graft substitutes CERAMENT® BONE VOID FILLER (BVF), CERAMENT® G* and CERAMENT® V* are all based on the Company’s novel and proprietary technology platform. The Company’s products are targeting a large addressable market opportunity across trauma, chronic osteomyelitis (bone infection), revision arthroplasty (replacement of a joint prosthesis) and infected diabetic foot. BONESUPPORT’s total sales increased from SEK 62 million in 2015 to SEK 129 million in 2017, representing a compound annual growth rate of 45%. The Company’s research and development is focused on the continuing development and refinement of its CERAMENT technology to extend its use into additional indications by the elution of drugs and therapeutic agents. The Company currently has a pipeline of pre-clinical product candidates that have been designed to promote bone growth. In addition, BONESUPPORT is looking at opportunities to expand its product offering in the USPress Release PR 0748 – 01 en EU/US and has entered into a strategic agreement with Collagen Matrix Inc. to market and distribute products that are complementary to CERAMENT BVF. BONESUPPORT is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm and trades under the ticker “BONEX” (ISIN code: SE0009858152). Further information is available at www.bonesupport.com *CERAMENT G: Not available in the United States, for investigational use only. CERAMENT V: Not available in the United States. BONESUPPORT™ and CERAMENT® are registered trademarks. For more information contact: BONESUPPORT AB Emil Billbäck, CEO +46 (0) 46 286 53 70 Björn Westberg, CFO +46 (0) 46 286 53 60 ir@bonesupport.com Citigate Dewe Rogerson Pip Batty, David Dible, Shabnam Bashir, Isabelle Andrews +44 (0)20 7282 1022 bonesupport@citigatedewerogerson.com This information is such information as BONESUPPORT HOLDING AB (publ) is obliged to make public pursuant to the EU Market Abuse Regulation. The information was submitted for publication, through the agency of the contact person set out above, at 18.30 CET on 18 July 2018.
PRESS RELEASE JULY 9, 2018 1 SenzaGen's final validation report for the animal- free allergy test GARDpotency™ has been submitted to the regulatory authorities Lund, July 9, 2018. SenzaGen (Nasdaq First North: SENZA) announces today that the company has submitted the official validation report for GARDpotency™ to the relevant regulatory authorities as a complement to the validation of GARDskin™. GARDpotency™ is the first animal-free allergy test on the market that can be used to evaluate chemicals according to the EU's CLP classification. Other initiatives to measure potency today, including animal tests, only reach an accuracy of 55%-69%. Therefore, we at SenzaGen are extremely happy to be able to present the final results of the report showing that our test can classify CLP Class 1A and 1B chemical substances, quantifying the risk of causing allergies with an accuracy of 82 percent, as determined by three laboratories. Results from the validation demonstrate that the performance of GARDskin™ together with GARDpotency™ exceeds all currently available validated methods. Worldwide approval and recommendation from ECVAM (the EU Reference Laboratory for Alternatives to Animal Testing) and OECD regarding the use of GARDskin™ and GARDpotency™ are expected in 2019. GARDpotency™ is based on the same biological platform as GARDskin™ and both tests are expected to be approved and recommended at the same time. Together with GARDpotency™, which complements GARDskin™, SenzaGen's allergy test will be unique on the market, as it is the only test that offers animal-free tests of chemicals in line with the EU's CLP classification. The CLP classification follows the Global Harmonized System, GHS, developed by the UN to create common criteria for the classification and labelling of chemicals. The EU Chemicals Agency ECHA, which regulates chemical use based on the REACH Regulation, requires that chemicals that may induce sensitivity (sensitization) must be potency-classified according to CLP. This has so far only been possible with a so-called LLNA (Local Lymph Node Assay) evaluation, which is an in vivo test using animals. SenzaGen's GARD™ test platform is based on human cells in vitro and genomic biomarkers, constantly delivering better accuracy than animal tests. "Potency is extremely difficult to measure. We are therefore very happy to be able to report these results. In view of the impressive validation results for GARDpotency™, we look forward to receiving the authorities' response regarding GARDskin™ and GARDpotency™ in 2019. As a consequence of these good results, we are planning to communicate sales targets for the coming years during the second half of this year. A positive response would make our allergy test the first animal-free test that PRESS RELEASE JULY 9, 2018 2 can be used for classification in accordance with CLP, the EU's standard," says Anki Malmborg Hager, CEO of Senzagen. The results from the validation report will be presented at forthcoming scientific conferences. For more information, please contact: Anki Malmborg Hager, CEO, SenzaGen AB Email: anki.malmborg.hager@senzagen.com Telephone: +46 768 284822 About GARD™ GARD™ is a group of tests for assessing chemical skin sensitizers. The tests make use of genetic biomarkers for more than 200 genes which cover the entire immune reaction and are relevant to predicting the risk of hypersensitivity. The tests have over 90 percent reliability. This compares with the current predominant test method, experiments on mice, which has an accuracy of 70-75 percent. SenzaGen’s tests are also capable of measuring the potency of a substance’s allergenic properties. Consequently, GARD tests provide a much more comprehensive basis for determining whether a substance should be classified as an allergen than current testing methods. About SenzaGen SenzaGen makes it possible to replace animal experiments with in vitro genetic testing to determine the allergenicity of the chemicals we come into contact with in our daily lives, such as for example in cosmetics, pharmaceuticals, food products and dyes. The company’s patented tests are the most reliable on the market and provide more information than traditional evaluation methods. We ourselves sell the tests in Sweden and the USA, and we sell through partners in several other countries. Over the next few years the company will expand geographically, make alliances with more distribution partners and launch further unique tests. SenzaGen has its headquarters in Lund in Sweden and a subsidiary in San Francisco, USA. For more information visit www.senzagen.com. The information was submitted for publication, through the contact person set out above on the 6 July 2018 at 08:50 SenzaGen AB is listed on Nasdaq First North in Stockholm and FNCA is the company’s Certified Adviser. For more information, please visit www.senzagen.com.
AarhusKarlshamn AB Phone +46 40 627 83 00 info@aak.com 556669-2850 Jungmansgatan 12 Fax +46 40 627 83 11 www.aak.com SE5566692850001 SE-211 19 Malmö Registered office: Malmö SWEDEN July 26, 2013 Press release AAK strengthens Food Ingredients by acquiring Unipro in Turkey AAK, one of the world-leading producers of high value-added vegetable oils and fats, has acquired Unipro from Unilever. Unipro is a leading supplier of oils and fats to the Industrial and Bakery markets in Turkey and the surrounding region. Founded in 1990 and located in Istanbul, Unipro employs approximately 37 people and had revenues of approximately SEK 700 million in 2012. The acquisition of Unipro includes ten established brands, a core management and sales organization, all related know-how and the Unipro company name for Bakery and Industrial fats. In connection with the acquisition, AAK has entered a 5 years toll manufacturing agreement with Unilever relating to the supply of Unipro products. “AAK will strengthen its presence in the 16th largest economy in the world which also has a strong real GDP growth. This is AAK’s next step in its strategy of increasing focus on growth markets.”, says Torben Friis Lange, Senior Vice President AAK. “This acquisition is an integral part of AAK Acceleration, and adds presence in areas which are identified as strategically important. This acquisition will serve as a platform for increased AAK sales of semi-speciality and speciality products in Turkey and the Middle East.”, says Arne Frank, President and CEO, AAK Group. The acquisition is subject to approval by the competition authorities. The impact on AAK’s 2013 operating profit is expected to be limited. Press & Analyst Conference A telephone “Press & Analyst Conference”, chaired by Arne Frank, the Group´s President and CEO, will be held at 11 am, CET, July 26 2013. To access the call, please register in advance via the investor tab on our website, www.aak.com. A link to the presentation material will be available on the section Investor on www.aak.com. For further information, please contact: Fredrik Nilsson Director Group Controlling and Investor Relations Phone: + 46 40 627 83 34 Mobile: + 46 708 95 22 21 The information is that which AarhusKarlshamn AB (publ) is obliged to publish under the provisions of the Stock Exchange and Clearing Operations Act and/or the Trading in Financial Instruments Act. The information was released to the media for publication on July 26, 2013 at 8.30 am CET. AarhusKarlshamn is one of the world’s leading producers of high value-added speciality vegetable fats.These fats are characterized by a high technological content and are used as substitute for butter-fat and cocoa butter, transfree solutions for fillings in chocolate and confectionery products, and in the cosmetics industry. AarhusKarlshamn has production facilities in Denmark, Mexico, the Netherlands, Sweden, Great Britain, Uruguay and the US. The company is organised in three Business Areas; Food Ingredients, Chocolate and Confectionery Fats and Technical Products & Feed. Further information on AarhusKarlshamn can be found on the company’s website www.aak.com.
Press release November 21, 2012 Gothenburg New Sales and Marketing Director at XVIVO Perfusion. Christer de Flon has been appointed as Sales and Marketing Director, with responsibility for all marketing and sales activities within Xvivo Perfusion. He joins the company from Blå Stjärnan, where he is CEO. Christer de Flon has previous work experience from senior management positions at Hässle, Astra-Hässle and AstraZeneca. He has also been the CEO of Carlsson Research AB, the Deputy CEO of Vitrolife AB and most recently the CEO of Blå Stjärnan’s Veterinary Hospital. Christer takes up his appointment no later than May 1, 2013. “With his great experience of sales and marketing, Christer will be an excellent asset for us in the work of establishing STEEN Solution™ on the market. We warmly welcome Christer to XVIVO Perfusion and the assignment as Sales and Marketing Director. I am pleased that our company is gaining an extremely competent and experienced co-worker,” says Magnus Nilsson, XVIVO Perfusion’s CEO. November 21, 2012 Gothenburg XVIVO Perfusion AB (publ) Magnus Nilsson CEO FOR FURTHER INFORMATION, PLEASE CONTACT Magnus Nilsson, CEO, tel: +46 31 788 21 50, e-mail: magnus.nilsson@xvivoperfusion.com Christoffer Rosenblad, CFO, tel: +46 73 519 21 59, e-mail: christoffer.rosenblad@xvivoperfusion.com For further information on XVIVO Perfusion’s business, please refer to the company’s website, www.xvivoperfusion.com ______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ XVIVO Perfusion AB is a medical technology company which develops solutions and systems for assessing and preserving organs outside the body and for selecting usable organs and maintaining them in optimal condition pending transplantation. The company is headquartered in Gothenburg, Sweden, and has one office in the USA. The Xvivo share is listed on NASDAQ OMX First North and has the ticker symbol XVIVO. More information can be found on the website www.xvivoperfusion.com. The Certified Adviser is Redeye, www.redeye.se. ______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ XVIVO Perfusion AB (publ), Box 53015, SE-400 14 Göteborg. Corporate identity number 556561-0424. Tel: +46 31 788 21 50. Fax: +46 31 788 21 69. E-mail: info@xvivoperfusion.com. Website: www.xvivoperfusion.com XVIVO Perfusion is required to publish the information in this press release in accordance with the Swedish Securities Market Act and/or the Financial Instruments Trading Act. The information was submitted for publication on November 21, 2012 at 08:30 a.m. This is a translation of the Swedish version of the press release. When in doubt, the Swedish wording prevails.
Smart Eye AB, Första Långgatan 28B, 413 27 Gothenburg, Sweden Tel: + 46 31 60 61 60 Fax: +46 31 701 05 15 E-mail: info@smarteye.se Gothenburg, January 10, 2018 Press release Smart Eye provides industry leading Face Id, Eye and Head tracking on NXP i.MX 8 applications processors At this week’s CES 2018 exhibition and conference, in Las Vegas, NXP will feature Smart Eye Face ID, Driver Monitoring and High Precision Gaze tracking on NXP i.MX 8 applications processors. “The collaboration between NXP® Semiconductors and Smart Eye is a great example of the evolving eco system that will make it possible to introduce Driver Monitoring and Interior sensing as a standard feature in all cars,” says Martin Krantz, CEO, Smart Eye. “For automotive OEM’s the ability to run the most robust and high‐performing Driver Monitoring algorithms on a state of the art, general purpose platform, provides outstanding performance with optimal flexibility and future proof technology.” Smart Eye’s Driver Monitoring technology provides the sensors and technology which supports the introduction of Face ID and Safety applications such as Drowsiness and Inattention. The advanced features take advantage of the processing power and flexibility of the NXP i.MX 8 series, and its feature and performance scalable multicore platform that includes single‐, dual‐ and quad‐core families based on the Arm® Cortex® architecture, including combined Cortex‐A72 + Cortex‐A53, Cortex‐A35 and Cortex‐M4 based solutions for advanced graphics, imaging, machine vision, audio, voice, video and safety critical applications. “Our scalable multicore platform supports single modality interior sensing and can scale for multi sensing applications. With Smart Eye’s Driver Monitoring technology running on the i.MX 8 applications processor, users will experience optimal safety critical applications as well as Face ID and Precision Gaze for HMI,” says Ron Martino, Vice President, i.MX Applications Processor Product Line at NXP. The demonstration can be found at the NXP booth LVCC, Central Plaza, CP‐25. For more information Martin Krantz, CEO Smart Eye AB Phone: +46 70‐329 26 98 Email: martin.krantz@smarteye.se About Smart Eye Smart Eye was founded to bridge the gap between man and machine for a better tomorrow by developing ground breaking eye tracking technology that understands, assists and predicts human intentions and actions. Through combining deep, technical knowledge with playful creativity, Smart Eye consist of two business units. Its research instruments offer high performance in complex, real‐world situations, paving the way for new insights in aerospace, aviation, automotive, psychology, neuroscience, medical and clinical research. Business unit Applied Solutions are embedded in next generation vehicles, helping the automotive industry take another step towards autonomous vehicles. Founded in 1999, Smart Eye has offices in Gothenburg, Sweden and Michigan, USA as well as having partners, resellers and distributors in Europe, USA and APAC. Its solutions are used by more than 700 clients all over the world by leading research groups, brands and labs such as US Air Force, Nasa, BMW, Lockheed Martin, Audi, Boeing, Volvo, GM, and many more. http://smarteye.se/ Smart Eye is listed on First North. Erik Penser is Certified Adviser and can be reached at +46‐8‐463 8000.
PUBLISHED: 2013-01-16 08:25 +0000 GMT | SOURCE: NASDAQ OMX NORDIC Change of Certified Adviser for AVTECH Sweden AB (9/13) As from January 19, 2013, AVTECH Sweden AB (publ) will change Certified Adviser to Mangold Fondkommission AB. This information is distributed at the request of the Certified Adviser, Thenberg & Kinde Fondkommission AB (publ). For further information, please call Thenberg & Kinde Fondkommission AB (publ) on +46 31 745 50 00.
LUND MAY 11, 2016 Page 1 of 1 P R E S S R E L E A S E Precise Biometrics algorithm solution integrated in Fingerprint Cards biometric module FPC-BM Precise BioMatch Embedded has through the collaboration with Fingerprint Cards (FPC) been integrated in FPC-BM, a complete embedded biometric module solution that can be used for a wide range of new applications, including access control, industry and healthcare, automotive, and Internet of Things (IoT). “The biometric module FPC-BM is an innovative product that facilitates integration of fingerprint technology for a range of new products. There is great potential in this market. Precise BioMatch Embedded provides a superior user experience for this type of resource- constrained environments”, said Håkan Persson, CEO of Precise Biometrics. The FPC-BM module is a complete embedded biometric fingerprint solution, including a robust FPC fingerprint sensor together with a biometric processor and on-board template storage. It can be used standalone, ready to use out-of-the-box at delivery, or connected to a host as an easy-to-integrate embedded solution. The FPC-BM brings together superior biometric performance and a high standard of quality components to offer an all-round embedded solution for increased security and enhanced user convenience. This press release contains information that Precise Biometrics is required to disclose pursuant to the Swedish Financial Instruments Trading Act (1991:980). The information was submitted for publication at 8.30 am CET on May 11, 2016. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION, PLEASE CONTACT Håkan Persson, CEO, Precise Biometrics AB Telefon; +46 46 31 11 05 or +46 734 35 11 05 E-mail; hakan.persson@precisebiometrics.com ABOUT PRECISE BIOMETRICS Precise Biometrics is a market-leading provider of solutions that prove people's identities through smart cards and fingerprint recognition. The company´s products can be used for ID, enterprise and bank cards as well as access to mobile solutions, computers and networks. Precise Biometrics serves business and government organizations throughout the world and its products are licensed to close to 160 million users. For more information, please visit; www.precisebiometrics.com
1 Pressrelease Ängelholm 2017-08-30 Cimco Marine AB (publ) – clarification on press release dated 2017-08-29 The board of Cimco Marine AB (publ) has assessed that the company will not meet the previously communicated sales target of 500 OXE units during 2017. Consequently, the turnover target of 150 MSEK and the positive cash flow target for 2017 will also not be met. Apart from delays in ramp-up from some vendors, Cimco has received feedback from a few selected customers on a potential technical quality issue with one of the components used for the OXE diesel outboard and has hence started an investigation to define if this is a quality assurance issue or if it is related to specific customer usage of the product. To be specific, what has been reported is that the turbocharger is leaking exhaust gasses through a seal under specific conditions. – Our products are used under severe conditions by demanding commercial users which means they will encounter a variety of operational cycles. We will now analyse the reported issue and if required redesign the component to perform to our set standards, any resulting delay should be limited. If the turbocharger in this case should need to be updated or replaced this would be done by our global service centers and not a recall back to Cimco. You always expect to see some technical issues in a young and complex product like the OXE but we have a highly experienced team and procedures to handle this in a professional manner and it will be resolved swiftly even through it temporarily affects our short term production output, says Cecilia Anderberg, CEO Cimco Marine AB. It’s the management’s firm belief that this will be resolved in the very near future and after possible supply chain adjustments the production will continue its planned ramp-up. If necessary this issue will be remedied by Cimco’s global service network, hence the financial impact for Cimco will be limited to warranty repair hours and replacement components. Based on this and Cimco’s firm approach on quality assurance of its product and brand name awareness, Cimco will continue production at UFAB but has decided to halt final assembly and shipping of products until the investigation and possible corrective actions are implemented into the product and this will hence impact the delivery capacity for 2017. Targets for fiscal year 2018 as well as the long-term targets remain intact. It is the management's firm belief that Cimco will be able to continue its planned production ramp-up after a short delay and that Cimco will reach its production target of 25 engines per week during the course of this year.2 For further information, please contact: Cecilia Anderberg, CEO Cimco Marine AB, +46 763-10 22 50 cecilia.anderberg@oxe-diesel.com Andreas Blomdahl, Chairman of the Board of Cimco Marine AB, +46 706-28 01 30, andreas@marinediesel.nu Lars Sjögrell, Head of public relations, Cimco Marine AB, +46 702-69 53 00, lars.sjogrell@perspective.se www.oxe-diesel.com Certified Adviser Västra Hamnen Corporate Finance AB is Certified Adviser for Cimco Marine AB. Cimco Marine AB (publ), is obligated to make this information public pursuant to the EU Market Abuse Regulation. The information was provided by the contacts above, to be submitted for publication on August 30, 2017 at 2.50 PM. Cimco Marine AB (publ) has, after several years of development, constructed the OXE Diesel, the world's first diesel outboard engine in the high power segment. OXE Diesel has a unique belt driven propulsion system that allows a hydraulic multi-friction gearbox to be mounted. This means that the engine can handle significantly higher loads than a traditional outboard engine. Cimco's OXE Diesel has a horizontally mounted engine as opposed to a traditional outboard with a vertically mounted engine.
Kristian Johansen Sven Børre Larsen CEO CFO 2 February 2017 Q4 2016 Earnings ReleaseForward-Looking Statements 2 All statements in this presentation other than statements of historical fact, are forward-looking statements, which are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict and are based upon assumptions as to future events that may not prove accurate. These factors include TGS’ reliance on a cyclical industry and principal customers, TGS’ ability to continue to expand markets for licensing of data, and TGS’ ability to acquire and process data products at costs commensurate with profitability. Actual results may differ materially from those expected or projected in the forward- looking statements. TGS undertakes no responsibility or obligation to update or alter forward-looking statements for any reason. ©2017 TGS-NOPEC Geophysical Company ASA. All rights reservedQ4 2016 Highlights • Q4 net revenues of 165 MUSD compared to 132 MUSD in Q4 2015 • Net late sales of 145 MUSD, up 60% from 90 MUSD in Q4 2015 • Net pre-funding revenues of 17 MUSD were down 53% from Q4 2015, funding 19% (37% excl. risk-sharing investments) of TGS’ operational multi-client investments for the quarter (88 MUSD including 42 MUSD from risk sharing arrangements) • Operating profit for the quarter was 42 MUSD compared to -140 MUSD in Q4 2015 • Cash flow from operations was 79 MUSD compared to 99 MUSD in Q4 2015 • Cash balance of 191 MUSD at 31 December 2016 in addition to undrawn 75 MUSD Revolving Credit Facility • Quarterly dividend maintained at USD 0.15 per share • Full Year 2016 net revenues of 456 MUSD compared to 612 MUSD in 2015 • Full Year 2016 operational investments of 271 MUSD including 51 MUSD from risk sharing arrangements (39% pre-funded, 48% excl. risk-sharing investments) • Full Year 2016 operating profit of 53 MUSD compared to -21 MUSD in 2015 3©2017 TGS-NOPEC Geophysical Company ASA. All rights reservedOperational Highlights
ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB Press Release, 2016-06-29 ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB’s initial public offering oversubscribed The 22 June 2016 the subscription period in ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB’s (”ExpreS2ion”) initial public offering (”IPO”) of shares at Nasdaq Stockholm First North (”First North”) ended. The IPO was subscribed for approximately 19.2 MSEK inclusive subscription commitments, corresponding to a subscription rate of approximately 107 percent. Through the IPO ExpreS2ion gets approximately 440 new share owners and approximately 18 MSEK before emission costs. The first day of trading is expected to be the 27 July 2016. Subscription and allotment The IPO was subscribed at approximately 19.2 MSEK including subscription commitments, corresponding to a subscription rate of approximately 107 percent. Hence the issued guarantee commitments were not activated. Through the IPO, 3 050 000 shares have been issued. ExpreS2ion has therefore raised approximately 18 MSEK before emission costs of approximately 1.4 MSEK. Settlement notes are planned to be sent out today the 29 June 2016. CEO Steen Klysner comments – We are very pleased with the great interest generated by the IPO of ExpreS2ion and that so many have chosen to subscribe shares in the company. We have thereby received the resources we need to expand our marketing efforts and to continue the development the ExpreS2 platform in a manner facilitating the profitability of the company in the long run. With these words I greet all our new shareholders and welcome you to ExpreS2ion! Listing on First North The first trading day of ExpreS2ion’s shares at First North is expected to be the 27 July 2016. Number of shares and share capital When ExpreS2ion’s IPO is registered at Bolagsverket, the total number of shares will increase to 8 728 739 shares and the share capital to 969 859.89 SEK. There are no outstanding subscription rights at ExpreS2ion. Financial Advisors and Certified Advisor Sedermera Fondkommission is the financial advisor for ExpreS2ion in relation to the planned Initial Public Offering and listing on Nasdaq Stockholm First North. Sedermera Fondkommission is also appointed as Certified Adviser for the company. For further information about the Initial Public Offering, please contact: Sedermera Fondkommission Phone: +46 (0) 431 - 47 17 00 E-mail: info@sedermera.se For further information about ExpreS2ion, please contact: Steen Klysner, CEO Telephone: +45 2062 9908 E-mail: sk@expres2ionbio.com About ExpreS2ion ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB, with company register number 559033-3729, has through the wholly owned Danish subsidiary ExpreS2ion Biotechnologies ApS, developed a platform technology enabling cost effective and robust production of complex proteins for the development of vaccines and diagnostics for e.g. Malaria and Zika. Since foundation in 2010, the subsidiary has used its patented ExpreS2 platform to produce more than 200 proteins in collaboration with research institutions and biopharmaceutical companies, with an efficiency and success rate superior to competing technologies.
Press release 2018-05-27 CEO CHANGE AT IMPACT COATINGS With the goal of becoming financially self-sufficient, the board of directors of Nasdaq First North-listed Impact Coatings has decided to replace CEO Henrik Ljungcrantz. Interim CEO is Torbjörn Sandberg, whose qualifications include being CEO of publicly listed and privately-owned technology companies. “The board of directors thanks Henrik Ljungcrantz for his unique and lasting contributions to Impact Coatings,” said Chairman of the Board Mark Shay. “But new leadership is needed to build a scalable organization that can exploit the company’s opportunities, achieve financial self- sufficiency, and thereby accelerate value creation for shareholders,” said Mark Shay. Torbjörn Sandberg who starts 28 May 2018 has been CEO for, among others, Sensys Gatso Group AB (publ), Birdstep Technology ASA (publ), Netadmin Systems, and ServiceFactory. “Tobjörn Sandberg has achieved significant results in companies through both growth and restructuring. Torbjörn Sandberg has expertise in organizational development, business processes, sales strategy and capital markets. We welcome Torbjörn Sandberg and his leadership, which will secure the next phase in Impact Coatings’ development,” said Mark Shay, Chairman of the Board. The target is to recruit a permanent CEO during this calendar year. “I am pleased to join Impact Coatings during this important phase in the company’s journey from technology innovator to industrial supplier of world-class coating solutions for fuel cells, reflectors, radar emblems, and consumer products,” said Torbjörn Sandberg, continuing: “The company has a strong team in Linköping, Japan and China. We can quickly establish sales and customer service continuity, as well as tune the organization to achieve the company’s significant potential.” Impact Coatings founder and CEO Henrik Ljungcrantz is leaving the company on 27 May 2018 in accordance with his employment agreement. The agreed notice period and severance pay duration amount to 12 months. “Dr. Ljungcrantz has pioneered PVD coating technology whose process and end-products contribute to a cleaner and more sustainable environment. For example, Ceramic MAXPHASE coating for metal bipolar plates in fuel cells has the potential to be a must-have component for industrial-scale fuel cell stack production. The board therefore wishes to thank Dr. Ljungcrantz for his unique and lasting contributions to Impact Coatings,” said Mark Shay. “Our coating solutions are highly regarded across multiple industry segments. They are under evaluation or already in production at some of the world’s leading automotive suppliers, auto OEM’s, and consumer products companies,” said Mark Shay. For more information, contact: Mark H. Shay, CFA Chairman of the Board Tel: +46 765 96 62 38 or e-mail: mark@accendofund.comImpact Coatings AB, Westmansgatan 29, SE-582 16 Linköping, Sweden Phone: +46 13 35 99 50, e-mail: info@impactcoatings.se, web: www.impactcoatings.com Impact Coatings AB (publ) is required to disclose this information in accordance with EU market abuse regulations. The information was delivered, via the contact person named above, for publication on 27 May 2018, 9:00 p.m. CET. About Impact Coatings Impact Coatings delivers world-leading technology for PVD-coatings of fuel cell plates and vehicle reflectors. PVD is a method of, under vacuum, producing thin layers of metals and ceramics – surface coatings that maximize performance and durability. Impact Coatings’ patented technology, for example, increases the efficiency of fuel cells 25-30 percent compared to other solutions. The company is strategically present in the international market for hydrogen-fueled vehicles, which is approaching a significant breakthrough. The company’s shares trade since 2004 on the Nasdaq First North exchange (Nasdaq OMX Nordic). The company’s Certified Adviser is Remium Nordic AB.
1 (1) Press release Östersund 21/12/2016 Press Release from Extraordinary General Meeting (“EGM”) in Diös Fastigheter AB (publ) Diös Fastigheter AB (publ) (“the Company”) has held an EGM on Wednesday 21 December 2016 at 11.00 a.m. in Östersund. At the EGM, it was resolved to amend the Articles of Association and to carry out a new issue of shares as described below. Resolution to amend the Articles of Association The EGM resolved to approve the Board’s resolution to amend the Articles of Association. In accordance, the limits for the Company’s share capital are amended to a minimum of SEK 149,000,000 and a maximum of SEK 596,000,000 and the limits for the number of shares in the company are amended to not less than 74,000,000 shares and not more than 296,000,000 shares. Resolution on a new issue of shares with preferential rights for existing shareholders The EGM resolved to approve the Board’s resolution to carry out a new issue of shares with preferential rights for the Company’s shareholders. According to the resolution, the Board, or a party appointed by and within the Board, is authorized, not later than five weekdays prior to the record date, to decide on the amount to increase the Company’s share capital, the maximum number of shares to be issued under the rights issue, the number of existing shares that will entitle to subscription for a specific number of new shares and the subscription price to be paid for each new share. Upon full subscription of the rights issue, the Company will receive an amount of approximately SEK 1,800 million before deduction of costs for the rights issue. The rights issue is carried out as part of the Company’s financing of the acquisition of a property portfolio from Castellum. The Board’s full proposal has been published earlier and is accessible at the Company’s website, www.dios.se. For additional information, please contact: Knut Rost, CEO: Phone: 010-470 95 01 E-mail: knut.rost@dios.se Rolf Larsson, CFO: Phone: 010-470 95 03 E-mail: rolf.larsson@dios.se This information is information that Diös Fastigheter AB (publ) is obliged to make public pursuant to the EU Market Abuse Regulation, the Swedish Securities Markets Act and/or the Swedish Financial Instruments Trading Act. The information was submitted, through the agency of the contact persons above, for publication at 11:55 on December 21, 2016.
Earnings Release Q4 2011 Robert Hobbs Chief Executive Officer Kristian K. Johansen Chief Financial OfficerForward-Looking Statements All statements in this presentation other than statements of historical fact, are forward- looking statements, which are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict and are based upon assumptions as to future events that may not prove accurate. These factors include TGS’ reliance on a cyclical industry and principal customers, TGS’ ability to continue to expand markets for licensing of data, and TGS’ ability to acquire and process data products at costs commensurate with profitability. Actual results may differ materially from those expected or projected in the forward-looking statements. TGS undertakes no responsibility or obligation to update or alter forward-looking statements for any reason.3 Q4 2011 Highlights • Net revenues were 180.9 MUSD, up 2% from Q4 2010 • Operating profit for the quarter was 62.7 MUSD, 35% of net revenues, compared to 81.4 MUSD (46% of net revenues) in Q4 2010 • Impairment of 19.5 MUSD recognized in Q4 on TGS’ economic interest in the E&P Holding Group (Skeie Energy) • Cash flow from operations before multi-client investments was 189.4 MUSD, up 59% from Q4 2010 • 2011 revenue guidance successfully realized • Healthy 2012-outlook for seismic spending and all-time high backlog • TGS proposes a dividend of NOK 6 per share for the 2011 accounting year4 Net Revenue Breakdown 2D 39% 3D 51% GPS 10% Q4 2011 2D 37% 3D 54% GPS 9% Q4 2010 EP 17% LP 81% Proprietary 2% Q4 2011 EP 15% LP 80% Proprietary 5% Q4 2010
Robert Hobbs Kristian K. Johansen Q4 2014 Earnings Release CEO COO/CFO 5 February 2015©2015 TGS-NOPEC Geophysical Company ASA. All rights reserved. All statements in this presentation other than statements of historical fact, are forward-looking statements, which are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict and are based upon assumptions as to future events that may not prove accurate. These factors include TGS’ reliance on a cyclical industry and principal customers, TGS’ ability to continue to expand markets for licensing of data, and TGS’ ability to acquire and process data products at costs commensurate with profitability. Actual results may differ materially from those expected or projected in the forward-looking statements. TGS undertakes no responsibility or obligation to update or alter forward- looking statements for any reason. Forward-Looking Statements 2©2015 TGS-NOPEC Geophysical Company ASA. All rights reserved.  Net revenues were a record 298 MUSD compared to 271 MUSD in Q4 2013  Net late sales of 226 MUSD, up 4% from 218 MUSD in Q4 2013  Net pre-funding revenues of 62 MUSD were up 44%, funding 49% of TGS’ operational multi-client investments for the quarter (126 MUSD)  Operating profit for the quarter was 47 MUSD, 16% of net revenues, compared to 120 MUSD (44% of net revenues) in Q4 2013  Q4 impairments of 63.9 MUSD related to the closure of Reservoir Solutions business unit and fair value assessment of non-current assets  Adjusted for the impairments, EBIT was 111 MUSD, 37% of net revenues in Q4 2014  Full year 2014 net revenues were 915 MUSD compared to 883 MUSD in 2013  Full year 2014 operating profit was 295 MUSD compared to 387 million in 2013  Two 3D vessels, three 2D vessels, one WAZ crew and four land crews operating under TGS control in Q4 2014  TGS was also a participant in two 2D marine joint venture projects and one ocean bottom seismic JV project Q4 2014 Highlights 3©2015 TGS-NOPEC Geophysical Company ASA. All rights reserved. 4 Operational Highlights
Press release Östersund 2017/11/20 Diös Fastigheter owns and develops both commercial and residential properties in prioritized growth areas in northern Sweden. With a market value of approx. SEK 19 billion, a portfolio of 339 properties and a lettable area of 1,550,000 sq.m, our vision is to be the most active and sought-after landlord in our market. The properties are located from Borlänge to Luleå with its head office in Östersund. The company has since 2005 had a continuous growth in value in the property portfolio and the share is listed on Nasdaq OMX Stockholm, Mid Cap. Learn more about Diös on www.dios.se Diös Fastigheter AB (publ), Box 188, SE-831 22 Östersund | Phone: +46 770-33 22 00, info@dios.se, www.dios.se | Corp Id: 556501-1771 Diös raises financing via SFF Diös has increased its financing via Svensk Fastighetsfinansiering AB (SFF) through a bond issue of SEK 191 million maturing 2019-09-25. The bond is secured by property mortgages and runs with a fixed coupon of 0.345%. It is an increase of an existing bond, issued at a premium to par, which gives Diös an effective interest rate of 0.30 percent. The bonds will be listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. -Financing through SFF is under favourable conditions and gives us good diversification, says Rolf Larsson, CFO of Diös Fastigheter. More information on SFF available on the website www.svenskfastighetsfinansiering.se. SFF is owned by Fabege AB, Catena AB, Dios Fastigheter AB Platzer Fastigheter Holding AB and Wihlborgs Fastigheter AB. For further information, please contact: Rolf Larsson, CFO Diös Fastigheter Telefon: +46 (0)10-470 95 03 E-mail: rolf.larsson@dios.se
ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB Press release, 2016-09-20 ExpreS2ion and VaxInnate Sign Research License Agreement Horsholm, Denmark, September 20, 2016 – Today, ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB (“ExpreS2ion”), and VaxInnate Corporation (“VaxInnate”) announce that they have signed a Research License Agreement under which VaxInnate can conduct vaccine research and preclinical development based on ExpreS2ion’s patented ExpreS2-platform for a year. The Research License Agreement VaxInnate has decided to continue its proprietary vaccine research with ExpreS2, which was initiated under a simple Material Transfer and Use Agreement (“MTA”) in 2015, under a new Research License Agreement (“RLA”). The RLA grants VaxInnate the right to conduct research based on ExpreS2 for one year, until August 2017. The agreement has no immediate significant financial impact on ExpreS2ion, but it has the potential for future revenues from new commercial licenses, if VaxInnate bring products based on the ExpreS2-platform into clinical development. Furthermore, this expands the use and demonstrates the functionality of the ExpreS2-platform. About VaxInnate VaxInnate Corporation is a privately-held biotechnology company in Cranbury, NJ, USA, that is pioneering breakthrough technology for use in developing novel vaccines. Its vaccine platform is based on Toll-like receptor (TLR) technology, which dramatically improves vaccine immunogenicity and efficacy. The technology involves genetically fusing vaccine antigens to the bacterial protein flagellin, a potent stimulator of the innate immune system. VaxInnate’s current focus is on vaccines for infectious diseases, including seasonal and pandemic flu, RSV, dengue and Zika. Steen Klysner, CEO, ExpreS2ion, comments “We are pleased that an accomplished partner as VaxInnate wishes to continue their vaccine research with our proprietary ExpreS2 platform. The combination of Vaccinates proprietary vaccine technology and our platform enable efficient development of new and exciting products and we look forward to the results " Certified Advisor Sedermera Fondkommission is appointed as Certified Adviser for ExpreS2ion. For further information, please contact: Steen Klysner, CEO Telephone: +45 2062 9908 E-mail: sk@expres2ionbio.com This information is information that ExpreS2ion is obliged to make public pursuant to the EU Market Abuse Regulation. The information was submitted for publication, through the agency of the contact person set out above on September 20, 2016, at 12.00 CET. About ExpreS2ion ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB, with company register number 559033-3729, has through the wholly owned Danish subsidiary ExpreS2ion Biotechnologies ApS, developed a platform technology enabling cost effective and robust production of complex proteins for the development of vaccines and diagnostics for e.g. Malaria and Zika. Since foundation in 2010, the subsidiary has used its patented ExpreS2 platform to produce more than 200 proteins in collaboration with research institutions and biopharmaceutical companies, with an efficiency and success rate superior to competing technologies.
PRESS RELEASE JULY 11, 2018 1 SenzaGen receives patent protection for GARDskinTM in China Lund, July 11th 2018 - SenzaGen (Nasdaq First North: SENZA) announces today that the Chinese Patent Office (CPO) has granted a patent for GARDskin™, the company's test that analyses the risk that chemical substances will induce skin allergies. The tests in the GARD™ portfolio outperform all currently available traditional validated methods, while at the same time eliminating the need for laboratory animals, as they are performed in test tubes (in vitro). Taken in conjunction with the recruitment of a Business Development Coordinator for the Asian market, this patent strengthens SenzaGen's future market opportunities in Asia. The recently granted Chinese patent covers the analytical methods and genetic signatures that form the basis of SenzaGen's GARDskin™ technology. The patent is valid until October 2031. "China is a potentially important future market for us, and patent protection in China is another confirmation of our technology's merits and a new milestone in establishing our unique GARDskinTM test method as a global industry standard. This complements European patent protection and further strengthens our potential in the global market of in vitro tests," says SenzaGen CEO, Anki Malmborg Hager. A vital part of SenzaGen's business development is relations with contract laboratories, industry, government agencies and NGOs concerned with alternative testing methods. The market for in vitro methods is growing rapidly, although experiments on animals are still permitted for allergy tests in some parts of the world. Asia is a huge market and is growing fast, and it is therefore essential for SenzaGen to prepare the way for a future introduction of its tests there. The announcement from the Chinese Patent Office relates to Chinese Patent No. CN 103429756 B entitled: "Analytical methods and arrays for use in the identification of agents inducing sensitization in human skin". Corresponding patent applications are currently being processed by the patent authorities in Brazil, Canada, Hong Kong, India, South Korea and the United States. For more information, please contact: Anki Malmborg Hager, CEO, SenzaGen AB Email: anki.malmborg.hager@senzagen.com Telephone: +46 768 284822 About GARD™ PRESS RELEASE JULY 11, 2018 2 GARD™ is a group of tests for assessing chemical skin sensitizers. The tests make use of genetic biomarkers for more than 200 genes which cover the entire immune reaction and are relevant to predicting the risk of hypersensitivity. The tests have over 90 percent reliability. This compares with the current predominant test method, experiments on mice, which has an accuracy of 70-75 percent. SenzaGen’s tests are also capable of measuring the potency of a substance’s allergenic properties. Consequently, GARD tests provide a much more comprehensive basis for determining whether a substance should be classified as an allergen than current testing methods. About SenzaGen SenzaGen makes it possible to replace animal experiments with in vitro genetic testing to determine the allergenicity of the chemicals we come into contact with in our daily lives, such as for example in cosmetics, pharmaceuticals, food products and dyes. The company’s patented tests are the most reliable on the market and provide more information than traditional evaluation methods. We ourselves sell the tests in Sweden and the USA, and we sell through partners in several other countries. Over the next few years the company will expand geographically, make alliances with more distribution partners and launch further unique tests. SenzaGen has its headquarters in Lund in Sweden and a subsidiary in San Francisco, USA. For more information visit www.senzagen.com. The information was submitted for publication, through the contact person set out above on July 11th 2018 at 08:50 SenzaGen AB is listed on Nasdaq First North in Stockholm and FNCA is the company’s Certified Adviser. For more information, please visit www.senzagen.com.
Wallenstam is a property company that manages, builds and develops properties for sustainable living and enterprise in Stockholm, Gothenburg and Uppsala. The property holdings are valued at around SEK 42 billion and the customer base consists of about 8,500 households and 1,000 enterprises. The total lettable area is around 1 million sq m. Wallenstam is self-sufficient in renewable energy through the company Svensk NaturEnergi and its own wind turbines in operation. The company’s B shares have been listed on Nasdaq Stockholm since 1984. Press release FAO: News Editor Gothenburg, May 29, 2018 Wallenstam issues bonds for SEK 400 million Wallenstam has today carried out a bond issue of SEK 400 million. The loan runs for two years with a fixed interest rate of 0.48 percent. The bonds are unsecured. The bonds will be used for future investments and restructuring of the loan portfolio. The bonds will be listed on Nasdaq Stockholm AB. Svenska Handelsbanken have acted as issuing agent. The issue was carried out within the framework of the MTN program (Medium Term Notes), which was established on November 1, 2017 with the aim of creating a broader and more flexible supply of capital. To date, bonds of SEK 2.55 billion have been issued within the MTN program. The program has a framework amount of SEK 5 billion and provides the opportunity to issue bonds in the Swedish market. Svenska Handelsbanken is the lead bank, and Nordea Bank, Svenska Handelsbanken and Swedbank are participating as issuing agents for the MTN program. For further information, please contact: Susann Linde, CFO and Head of Investor Relations Wallenstam AB (publ), tel: +46 31 20 00 00 or +46 705 17 11 34 www.wallenstam.se
ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB Press Release, 2017-10-18 ExpreS2ion’s new joint venture, AdaptVac, reaches proof of concept in animals for breakthrough breast cancer vaccine treatment Hørsholm, Denmark, October 18, 2017 – Today, ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB (“ExpreS2ion”) announces that its joint venture, AdaptVac ApS (“AdaptVac”), has reached proof of concept in advanced animal models (POCA) for AV-001, its novel vaccine treatment against breast cancer tumours. This is a significant milestone for AdaptVac in the progress towards clinical development. AdaptVac will now initiate discussions with large pharmaceutical companies regarding a license or collaboration agreement for the clinical development of the project. The scientific results that form the basis of the proof of concept in animal models show a strong therapeutic effect on par with leading treatments on the market. The data will be presented the 30th of November at the Virus-Like Particle & Nano-Particle Vaccines meeting in Singapore under the title ‘A novel VLP-display technology enables induction of protective antibody responses directed against human HER2 in a transgenic mouse model of spontaneous breast cancer’ and has also been submitted for publication in a renowned, peer-reviewed scientific journal with expected publication later in 2017. The idea to use a vaccine treatment against non-infectious diseases such as cancer or allergy is not new. However, up until now it has been very difficult in cancer to overcome the body’s immune response and show strong therapeutic efficiency with modern so-called subunit vaccines. By adding a virus-like structure to the substance to trigger the immune system in a specific way, AdaptVac’s technology is ideally suited for a rapid conversion of a broad range of previously inefficient subunit vaccines to efficient treatments. AdaptVac’s project portfolio currently consists of two lead projects: the breast cancer project and one undisclosed infectious disease project. Dr. Steen Klysner, CEO of ExpreS2ion, comments: “I am happy to announce that our new joint venture, AdaptVac, has reached proof of concept in advanced animal models. Being able to show a strong therapeutic effect on breast cancer tumours that rival the efficiency of existing treatments in validated animal models is truly exciting in itself and an important milestone for AdaptVac’s work going forward.” Strong market potential in breast cancer Breast cancer is a widespread oncology indication affecting more than 1.3 million worldwide annually and resulting in more than 450,000 deaths (Tao, 2015: www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25543329). The most common treatment today is based on monoclonal antibodies, where the dominating therapy HERCEPTIN (trastuzumab) generates annual global sales of US$ 7 billion. The target product profile of AdaptVac's lead breast cancer prototype is tailored to be highly competitive both in terms of cost and efficacy, thus aiming at a significant market share. About AdaptVac ApS AdaptVac is a new joint venture between ExpreS2ion Biotechnologies and NextGen Vaccines, combining ExpreS2ions platform with novel proprietary and ground-breaking Virus-Like Particle (VLP) technology, developed at the University of Copenhagen. The company aims to accelerate the development of highly efficient therapeutic and prophylactic vaccines within high value segments of oncology, infectious diseases and immunological disorders.ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB Press Release, 2017-10-18 About NextGen Vaccines ApS NextGen Vaccines Aps was founded by researchers from the Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences in Copenhagen University. It has developed a patented technology that enables the development of an entirely new class of vaccines. The method may be used broadly for effective treatment of both serious infectious diseases (e.g. Zika Virus, Human Papillomavirus and Malaria) and non-contagious diseases, including cancer and allergy. For further information about ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB, please contact: Dr. Steen Klysner, CEO Telephone: +45 2062 9908 E-mail: sk@expres2ionbio.com About ExpreS2ion ExpreS2ion Biotechnologies ApS, is a fully owned Danish subsidiary of ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB with company register number 559033-3729. The subsidiary has developed a unique platform technology, ExpreS2, enabling cost effective development and robust production of complex proteins for new vaccines and diagnostics for e.g. Malaria and Zika. Since founded in 2010, the company has used its patented ExpreS2 platform to produce more than 250 proteins in collaborations with research institutions and biopharmaceutical companies, with a superior efficiency and success rate. Certified Adviser Sedermera Fondkommission is appointed as Certified Adviser for ExpreS2ion. This press release contains information that ExpreS2ion is obligated to make public pursuant to the EU Market Abuse Regulation. The information was submitted for publication through the agency of the contact person set out above on October 18, 2017.
Kista, December 6, 2016 Swedish Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) grants Cortus Energy support from the Climate Leap with SEK 36.3 million for the project in Höganäs Cortus Energy has today received a grant from the Climate-step with SEK 36.3 million for the project in Höganäs relating to an investment in a 6 MW modular WoodRoll at Höganäs AB. The support from the Climate Leap represents a major step toward establishing WoodRoll on a commercial scale. Cortus Energy develops and markets the unique WoodRoll technology which gasify biomass in a new innovative way that results in several unique advantages over all other existing gasification technologies. Cortus Energy offers competitive green energy solutions for power, industrial and transportation applications based upon the patented WoodRoll technology. Project Probiostål was started in 2014 and has been running in collaboration with Höganäs AB. The project also includes companies and suppliers within the Swedish steel industry (via Jernkontoret – the Swedish Steel Association). The project aims to identify and verify technical solutions that reduces the steel industry's emissions of mainly carbon dioxide. A modular 6 MW WoodRoll shall be erected in 2017 to demonstrate these capabilities during 2018. After completion of the demonstration the plant goes into commercial operation where Cortus Energy owns and operates the facility for the delivery of green (renewable) energy to Höganäs AB. This, per the preliminary agreement as communicated February 16 (2016). The Climate Leap is part of the state budget. EPA, in collaboration with other central agencies and county administrative boards provide support to local investments. The funds invested will provide the greatest possible benefit to the climate and the main purpose is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Dissemination of technology, market introduction and positive impact on other environmental parameters, health and job creation are other desired effects. EPA's decision to support the project in Höganäs ensures its commercial part and is motivated by "Based on information received for the project and the EPA estimates demonstrate one of the greatest sustained reduction of greenhouse gas emissions per invested SEK." "EPA’s positive decision is very encouraging and confirms the cost-effective climate benefits that WoodRoll have. With the support from the Climate Leap we are taking a major step forward on establishing our modularized WoodRoll on a commercial scale. We are now working to get the last parts of the financing in place to be able to take a positive investment early 2017. "says Rolf Ljunggren, CEO Cortus Energy.For further information, please contact: Rolf Ljunggren, CEO Tel: +46 (0) 8 588 866 30 www.cortusenergy.com About Cortus Energy Cortus Energy (Publ) offers cost-effective energy gas for power, industrial and automotive applications based on its patented WoodRoll technology. WoodRoll has great feedstock flexibility, which means that the process can utilize low-grade renewable feedstock without compromising processing performance. Cortus Energy's shares are traded on Nasdaq First North (Stockholm, Sweden). Mangold Fondkommission, phone +46 8-503 01 550, is the Company's Certified Adviser.
Press release Östersund 2015-12-21 Diös Fastigheter owns and develops both commercial and residential properties in prioritized growth areas in northern Sweden. With a market value of SEK 12.6 billion, a portfolio of 351 properties and a lettable area of 1.422 sq., our vision is to be the most active and sought-after landlord in our market. The properties are located from Borlänge to Luleå with its head office in Östersund. The company has since 2005 had a continuous growth in value in the property portfolio and the share is listed on Nasdaq OMX Stockholm, Mid Cap. Learn more about Diös on www.dios.se Diös Fastigheter sells in Ånge Diös Fastigheter has sold Mallberget 1:15, an industrial property, in Ånge to Lelles Brunnsborrning Aktiebolag. The lettable area is 3,216 square metres and the sale price totals SEK 2.3 million. Change of possession is on 21 December 2015. After this sale, Diös Fastigheter does not own any properties in Ånge. The transaction will give a result of approximately SEK 1 million, transaction costs included. The results will be reported during the fourth quarter in 2015. For further information, please contact: Lars-Göran Dahl, Property Director, Diös Fastigheter Phone: +46 (0)10- 470 95 04 E-mail: lars-goran.dahl@dios.se
Cybercom Group AB (publ) Box 7574, 103 93 Stockholm, Sweden Tel +46 8 578 646 00 To the editor 9 March 2017 Microsoft partners with Cybercom Cybercom has been chosen by Microsoft as its Nordic partner for Azure - Data Platform, Advanced Analytics and IoT. Maria Green Danell, Microsoft Azure’s Partner Development Unit Manager and Cybercom’s CEO Niklas Flyborg, together with Tommy Flink from Microsoft, and Magnus Skebäck and Joachim Östh from Cybercom. “Our clients are digitalising at an accelerating pace, and there is increasing demand for integrated cloud platforms that can be quickly adapted to new requirements. Microsoft’s Azure offers a wide range of services that can streamline our clients’ business, including everything from traditional cloud provision to the exciting services in IoT and Analytics, which are expanding rapidly as ever more things become connected,” says Magnus Skebäck, Partnership Manager, Cybercom. Gartner positions Microsoft as one of the leading providers of integrated cloud as a service. Through its focus on cloud services, Microsoft has built up a cloud platform that delivers an integrated facility for everything from operations to advanced IoT solutions. “This is an important partnership for us. We are now investing in Cybercom, as one of our carefully selected partners, where we will jointly build a centre of excellence in specific areas of technology for Azure,” says Maria Green Danell, Partner Development Unit Manager, Microsoft. Microsoft uses a powerful set of security technologies and principles in its systems, which makes the Azure infrastructure resilient to attacks, protects user access to the Azure environment, helps to protect client data via encrypted connections, and applies threat management and risk mitigation methods, including penetration testing.Cybercom Group AB (publ) Box 7574, 103 93 Stockholm, Sweden Tel +46 8 578 646 00 “This partnership is a strategic growth initiative for us. Microsoft’s technology creates a solid platform as we assist our clients to advance their positions in the digital transformation. We place great emphasis on IT security at Cybercom, and it is important that Microsoft has security and confidentiality built directly into the Azure platform. As a cloud provider it has highly comprehensive compliance coverage,” says Joachim Östh, Cybercom. For further information, please contact: Magnus Skebäck, Head of Cybercom in Gothenburg +46 703 59 57 30 Maria Green Danell, Microsoft Azure Partner Development Unit Manager +46 734 08 29 90 Joachim Östh, Head of Digitalisation and IoT, Cybercom Sweden NE +46 703 57 47 10 Kristina Cato, Head of Communications, Cybercom Group +46 708 64 47 02 About Cybercom Cybercom is an IT consulting company that enables leading companies and organisations to benefit from the opportunities of the connected world. Our consultants, and the solutions we create, take us all the way from public sector e-services in Sundsvall, Stockholm and Helsinki to operators and mobility in the Caribbean islands, via the UN Global Compact, driverless cars, national electronic identification, connected sewing machines and elevators. The company’s areas of expertise span the entire ecosystem of communication services and security. Cybercom’s domestic market is the Nordic region, and in addition the company offers global delivery capacity for local and international business. Cybercom was founded in 1995. Find out more at www.cybercom.com
Smart Eye AB, Första Långgatan 28B, 413 27 Gothenburg, Sweden Tel: + 46 31 60 61 60 Fax: +46 31 701 05 15 E-mail: info@smarteye.se Gothenburg, 12 October 2017 Press release iMotions and Smart Eye partner to combine high-end, non-intrusive, eye tracking with emotional tracking and biometric measurements iMotions, a leading provider of solutions for multimodal biometric research, and Smart Eye, a leading manufacturer of high-end eye tracking technology, are joining forces to further expand eye tracking and biometric research in the high-end research market. “We are proud to announce this partnership with the world leader in multimodal biometric research, combining eye tracking with other physiological signals. By partnering with iMotions, we will help scientists around the world to uncover both conscious and subconscious behavior in experimental research. It is our belief that our uncompromising style in design of the best possible hardware goes hand in hand with iMotions’ unique and broad approach, taking into account the whole range of experimental variability. It’s a perfect match” says Martin Krantz, CEO, Smart Eye. The iMotions’ platform will fully integrate the Smart Eye Pro, designed for advanced, multi- camera eye tracking research, as well as the Aurora, Smart Eye’s high-end screen-based eye tracker. This enables seamless data collection, synchronization, visualization and analysis in combination with other sensors and technologies such as galvanic skin response, facial expression analysis, EEG, self-report, and much more, in one single computer. Researchers in high-end aviation and automotive segments can now take their emotional insights even further with this integrated solution. “It is a pleasure to announce that iMotions’ Biometric Research Platform now works with Smart Eye's innovative and high-quality tracking systems. The integration will provide existing and future clients with even more options and capabilities to conduct advanced human behavioral research, without adding complexity to their setups” says Peter Hartzbech, founder and CEO, iMotions. For more information, please contact: Martin Krantz, CEO Smart Eye AB Phone: +46 70-329 26 98 Email: martin.krantz@smarteye.se http://corp.smarteye.se This information is information that Smart Eye AB (publ) is obliged to make public pursuant to the EU Market Abuse Regulation. The information was submitted for publication, through the agency of the contact person set out above, at October 12, 2017 at 15:00 CET.Smart Eye AB, Första Långgatan 28B, 413 27 Gothenburg, Sweden Tel: + 46 31 60 61 60 Fax: +46 31 701 05 15 E-mail: info@smarteye.se About iMotions iMotions provides software, hardware, and services to academics, neuromarketers, UX researchers, health care researchers, and Fortune 100 companies to elevate human behavior insights by using psychophysiological measurements from eye tracking, facial expression analysis, EEG, Galvanic Skin Response, ECG, EMG, integrated with self-report measurements from surveys. Founded in 2005, iMotions has offices in Copenhagen and Boston. Its solutions are used by more than 600 clients in more than 70 countries around the world by leading academic institutions such as Harvard, Stanford, NYU and MIT, and leading brands such as P&G, Unilever, and GM. www.imotions.com About Smart Eye Smart Eye was founded to bridge the gap between man and machine for a better tomorrow by developing groundbreaking eye tracking technology that understands, assists and predicts human intentions and actions. Through combining deep, technical knowledge with playful creativity, Smart Eye consist of two business units. Its research instruments offer high performance in complex, real-world situations, paving the way for new insights in aerospace, aviation, automotive, psychology, neuroscience, medical and clinical research. Business unit Applied Solutions are embedded in next generation vehicles, helping the automotive industry take another step towards autonomous vehicles. Founded in 1999, Smart Eye has offices in Gothenburg, Sweden and Michigan, USA as well as having partners, resellers and distributors in Europe, USA and APAC. Its solutions are used by more than 700 clients all over the world by leading research groups, brands and labs such as US Air Force, Nasa, BMW, Lockheed Martin, Audi, Boeing, Volvo, GM, and many more. Smart Eye is listed on First North. Erik Penser is Certified Adviser and can be reached at +46-8-463 8000. www.smarteye.se
PRESS RELEASE DATE: 2018-04-09 VITEC • www.vitecsoftware.com • info@vitec.se UMEÅ: TVISTEVÄGEN 47 A, 907 29 UMEÅ, SWEDEN. PHONE: +46 90-15 49 00 Page 1 (1) Vitec acquires the software company PP7 Affärssystem Vitec Software Group AB (publ) has on April 9 agreed to acquire all shares in the Swedish software company PP7 Affärssystem AB. The company develops software for the construction and installation market in Sweden. The main product is a cloud- based software for project and business support that optimizes flows and routines for a specific project. The company had a turnover of close to MSEK 8 for the fiscal year 2017, with an EBITDA result of MSEK 1.4. Payment is in cash at the time of entry. The acquisition is expected to directly result in an increase in earnings per share for Vitec. Consolidation takes place from acquisition date and the company will report in the Real Estate business area. “PP7 Business Systems is a well-managed and profitable company with standardized products for a specific niche. Vitec has a long-term perspective, when we acquire companies, we do so to keep them and we are therefore always careful with our acquisition criteria. PP7 Business system fits well into our business model as well as corporate culture, and it is therefore gratifying to welcome new employees and customers to the Group today,” says Lars Stenlund, CEO Vitec Software Group. “We are facing a generation change in the company and this will be a safe solution for our customers and employees. The experience of developing, selling and supporting niche software within Vitec, together with our employee’s knowledge of customer operations, gives us great opportunities to continue developing future software for building and installation companies' project management,” says Birgitta Bååth, CEO & Founder PP7 Business Systems. For more information, please contact Lars Stenlund, VD Vitec Software Group AB (publ), mob. +46 70 659 49 39 Patrik Fransson, IR Vitec Software Group AB (publ) mob. +46 76 942 85 97 About Vitec Vitec is market leader for Vertical Market Software in the Nordic region. We develop and deliver standard niche software. Vitec grows through acquisitions of well-managed and well-established software companies. The Group's overall processes together with the employees' in-depth knowledge of the customer's local market enables continuous improvement and innovation. Our 600 employees are based in Denmark, Finland, Norway and Sweden. Vitec is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm and had net sales of SEK 855 million in 2017. Find more at www.vitecsoftware.com.
Press release March 14, 2014 Gothenburg Progress made in the NOVEL study in the USA Indiana University Health in Indianapolis, USA has performed its first transplantation using lungs from a DCD (Donation after Circulatory Death) donor within the framework of the NOVEL-study. This has been made possible by using STEEN Solution™ and the XPS™ to evaluate the lung function outside the body. The FDA advisory committee meeting will be held on March 20, 2014. The number of lungs from DCD donors used in lung transplantation is limited today, but using the STEEN Solution™ method, these lungs can also be used for transplantation to a greater extent than would otherwise be possible. It is XVIVO Perfusion’s assessment that the number of lung transplants can be many times greater in the future when the use of lungs from DCD donors is more extensively employed. Dr Thomas Wozniak, Lung Transplant Surgical Director at IU Health stated recently that "Despite the fact that most DCD lungs satisfy standard criteria for transplantation, changes can occur during the DCD process that can render some of these organs suboptimal. Prior to the availability of XVIVO, there was no way to determine which of these lungs would fail other than implanting them into recipients. For this reason, we have not previously utilized DCD lungs. With XVIVO perfusion, we are now more able to predict which of these lungs will be suitable for implantation into a recipient. To date, our program has transplanted 2 patients utilizing XVIVO technology that otherwise would not have been considered for DCD lungs." The FDA process is proceeding according to plan and XVIVO Perfusion has submitted material for the advisory committee meeting to be held on March 20, 2014. The expert panel consists of external experts and it primarily assesses the results from the NOVEL study in the USA. The expert panel gives advice and recommendation to the FDA regarding regulatory questions. "It is good news that IU Health has performed its first transplantation of lungs from a DCD donor using STEEN Solution™ and the XPS™. As the donor pool can become many times greater if there is access to DCD donors’ lungs and the STEEN Solution™ EVLP method enables more patients with severe lung disease improved access to lung transplantation and therefore to enjoy a longer and better life." says Dr Magnus Nilsson, CEO of XVIVO Perfusion. March 14, 2014 Gothenburg XVIVO Perfusion AB (publ) Magnus Nilsson, CEO For further information, please contact Christoffer Rosenblad, CFO, +46 31 788 21 59, christoffer.rosenblad@xvivoperfusion.com _____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ XVIVO Perfusion AB is a medical technology company which develops solutions and systems for assessing and preserving organs outside the body and for selecting usable organs and maintaining them in optimal condition pending transplantation. The company is headquartered in Gothenburg, Sweden, and has one office in the USA. The Xvivo share is listed on NASDAQ OMX First North and has the ticker symbol XVIVO. More information can be found on the website www.xvivoperfusion.com. The Certified Adviser is Redeye, www.redeye.se. ____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________XVIVO Perfusion AB (publ), Box 53015, SE-400 14 Göteborg. Corporate identity number 556561-0424. Tel: +46 31 788 21 50. Fax: +46 31 788 21 69. E-mail: info@xvivoperfusion.com. Website: www.xvivoperfusion.com XVIVO Perfusion is required to publish the information in this press release in accordance with the Swedish Securities Market Act and/or the Financial Instruments Trading Act. The information was submitted for publication on March 14, 2014 at 8:30 a.m. This is a translation of the Swedish version of the press release. When in doubt, the Swedish wording prevails.
TGS | EARNINGS RELEASE 6 FEBRUARY 2014 TGS EARNINGS RELEASE 4th QUARTER RESULTS 4th QUARTER HIGHLIGHTS  Consolidated net revenues were USD 271 million, compared to USD 281 million in Q4 2012.  Net late sales totaled USD 218 million, up 7% from USD 204 million in Q4 2012.  Net pre-funding revenues were USD 44 million, down 33% from Q4 2012, funding 47% of the Company’s operational multi- client investments during Q4 (investments of USD 92 million, down 3% from Q4 2012).  Proprietary revenues were USD 10 million, compared to USD 13 million in Q4 2012.  Operating profit (EBIT) was USD 120 million (44% of net revenues), compared to USD 118 million (42% of net revenues) in Q4 2012.  Cash flow from operations was USD 214 million, compared to USD 243 million in Q4 2012.  Earnings per share (fully diluted) were USD 0.81, which is the same as Q4 2012. FULL YEAR 2013 FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS  Consolidated net revenues were USD 883 million, compared to USD 932 million in 2012.  Net late sales from the multi-client library totaled USD 638 million, up 13% from USD 564 million in 2012.  Net pre-funding revenues were USD 186 million, down 45% from 2012, funding 42% of the Company’s operational multi-client investments during 2013 (investments of USD 439 million, down 12% from 2012).  Proprietary revenues were USD 59 million, compared to USD 30 million in 2012.  Operating profit (EBIT) was USD 387 million (44% of net revenues), compared to USD 402 million (43% of net revenues) in 2012.  Cash flow from operations was USD 543 million after an extraordinary tax payment of net USD 42 million in 2013, a decrease of 18% from USD 663 million in 2012.  Earnings per share (fully diluted) were USD 2.59, compared to USD 2.76 in 2012. “We are very pleased to announce a strong fourth quarter and end of year 2013, which caused us to beat our revenue guidance as announced in early October. Q4 was marked by continued strong late sales from our high-quality data library and we set a new record for late sales in the quarter. Energy companies continue to demand higher resolution subsurface images in mature basins and new regional data in frontier basins to guide their exploration efforts. Customer interest in new projects is confirmed by our record backlog at the end of Q4. TGS is clearly positioned to deliver the data needed by the industry to identify new reserves. TGS has a strong commitment to deliver shareholder returns through a combination of growth, dividends and share buy-backs” TGS’ CEO Robert Hobbs stated.Multi‐ client Seismic 90% Propr. Seismic 4%GPS 6% KEY FIGURES REVENUE BREAKDOWN TGS’ largest business activity is developing, managing, conducting and selling multi-client seismic surveys. This activity accounted for 90% of the Company’s business during the quarter. Geological Products and Services (GPS) accounted for 6% of net revenues in the fourth quarter, while proprietary seismic revenues accounted for 4% of net revenues. Net late sales amounted to USD 218.3 million compared to USD 203.7 million in Q4 2012. Net pre-funding revenues totaled USD 43.5 million, a decrease of 33% from Q4 2012. The pre- funding revenues recognized in the fourth quarter funded 47% of the operational investments of USD 92.4 million in the multi-client library. In 2013, pre-funding amounted to USD 185.7 million (42% of operational investments) representing a decrease of 45% compared to 2012. Proprietary contract revenues during the quarter totaled USD 9.6 million compared to USD 12.7 million in Q4 2012. For the twelve months ended December 2013 proprietary revenues totaled USD 59.4 million, compared to USD 30.3 million in 2012. TGS’ reporting structure is broken down in the following seismic business segments; North and South America (NSA), Europe (EUR) and Africa, Middle East and Asia Pacific (AMEAP). In addition to these areas, several business units are aggregated to form an “Other” segment. This segment includes GPS Well Data, GPS Interpretations, Global Services, Imaging and Permanent Reservoir Monitoring. The Company’s land seismic projects in North America are reported under the geographic region NSA. Sales from NSA totaled USD 124.6 million in Q4 2013 (USD 124.9 million in Q4 2012). Sales from EUR amounted to USD 104.4 million in Q4 2013 (USD 82.4 million in Q4 2012), while AMEAP had total sales of USD 17.2 million in Q4 2013 (USD 53.8 million in Q4 2012). (All amounts in USD 1,000s) Q4 2013 Q4 2012 YTD 2013 YTD 2012 Net operating revenues 271,367 281,390 883,444 932,239 EBIT 120,252 117,871 386,976 402,304 Pre-tax profit 117,565 123,106 381,460 407,550 Net income 84,055 83,913 269,106 284,533 EBIT margin 44% 42% 44% 43% Return on capital employed 32% 36% 32% 36% Equity ratio 74% 69% 74% 70% MC library opening net book value 773,990 671,241 651,165 511,131 Investments in new projects 92,363 95,345 438,869 496,240 MC data purchased from third parties - 3,461 - 31,100 Amortization (106,985) (118,882) (329,829) (387,305) Exchange rate adjustments (1,275) - (2,112) - MC library ending net book value 758,093 651,165 758,093 651,165 Pre-funding % on operational investments 47% 68% 42% 68% NSA 124.6 (46%) Europe 104.4 (38%) AMEAP 17.2 (6%) Other 25.2 (9%)OPERATIONAL COSTS The amortization of the multi-client library for Q4 2013 amounted to USD 107.0 million, (USD 118.9 million in Q4 2012) which corresponds to 41% (44% in Q4 2012) of the net revenues from the multi-client library for the quarter. Amortization fluctuates from quarter to quarter, depending on the sales mix of projects. The amortization rate for the full year of 2013 was 40% compared to 43% in 2012. In Q4 2013, 8% of net multi-client revenues came from pre-2009 vintages which are fully written off the books in line with the Company’s amortization policy. Cost of goods sold (COGS) were USD 1.5 million for the quarter, compared to USD 4.9 million in Q4 2012. The decrease is due to lower proprietary vessel activity in Q4 2013 compared to Q4 2012. Personnel costs expensed during the quarter were USD 22.3 million compared to USD 24.2 million in Q4 2012. The reduction is mainly related to lower employee bonus expenses. Other operating expenses were USD 13.7 million compared to USD 11.0 million in Q4 2012. The increase is primarily explained by an accrual of USD 1.9 million related to bad debt. EBITDA AND EBIT Reported EBITDA (Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortization) for the quarter ended 31 December 2013 was USD 232.7 million, which corresponds to 86% of net revenues, down 3% from USD 240.3 million in Q4 2012. Operating profit (EBIT) for the quarter amounts to USD 120.3 million which is up from USD 117.9 million in Q4 2012. FINANCIAL ITEMS TGS recorded a currency exchange loss of USD 4.8 million in Q4 2013 which is mainly due to unrealized losses related to translating local currency bank accounts into USD. TAX For the full year, TGS reports tax charges in accordance with the Accounting Standard IAS 12. Tax charges are computed based on the USD value relating to the appropriate tax provisions according to local tax regulations and currencies in each jurisdiction. The tax charges are influenced not only from local profits, but also from fluctuations in exchange rates between the local currencies and USD. This method makes it difficult to predict tax charges on a quarterly or annual basis. TGS’ largest operating entity is a Norwegian tax resident. Accordingly, the tax calculations are performed in NOK. Based on the resolution received from the Norwegian Tax Authorities in May 2013, TGS changed its methods for calculating taxes. A consequence of the resolution is increased volatility in temporary differences between reported tax and actual tax payments which leads to higher currency exchange exposure. Currency effects within the current year are classified as tax expenses. In some tax jurisdictions, the Company receives a tax deduction in respect of remuneration paid as stock options. The Company recognizes an expense for employee services in accordance with IFRS 2 which is based on the fair value of the award at the date of the grant. The tax rate reported for the quarter is at 29% compared to 32% last year. The low tax rate in Q4 2013 is primarily due to changes in temporary differences in Norway measured in NOK. The translation of the NOK tax calculation into USD has implied a foreign currency gain classified as tax expense. TGS has also received R&D tax relief in the United Kingdom during Q4 2013 which is recognized within the tax expense and contributes to the low quarterly tax rate. As described in the Q2 Earnings Release, TGS presents its financial statements based on the resolution from the Norwegian Tax Authorities received in May 2013. TGS does not agree with the resolution from the Norwegian Tax Authorities and has issued a writ to the Oslo district court. TGS expects the trial to take place in 2014.NET INCOME AND EARNINGS PER SHARE (EPS) Net income for Q4 2013 was USD 84.1 million (31% of net revenues), slightly up from 83.9 million in Q4 2012. Quarterly earnings per share (EPS) were USD 0.81 fully diluted (USD 0.82 undiluted), which is at the same level as in Q4 2012. MULTI-CLIENT INVESTMENTS AND LIBRARY Exchange rate adjustments are related to libraries with functional currencies other than USD BALANCE SHEET AND CASH FLOW The net cash flow from operations for the quarter, after taxes, before investments, totaled USD 213.8 million compared to USD 243.4 million in Q4 2012. The operational cash flow includes an extraordinary tax refund of USD 15.2 million received in October related to a re-assessment of the 2011 tax settlement based on the resolution from the Norwegian Tax Authorities from May 2013. As of 31 December 2013, the Company’s total cash holdings amounted to USD 280.7 million compared to USD 338.7 million at 31 December 2012. As of 31 December 2013, TGS held USD 3.9 million in Auction Rate Securities (ARS), all in AAA-rated closed-end funds. The Company has not recognized any impairment to goodwill or other intangible assets during Q4 2013. TGS currently does not have any interest bearing debt. Total equity per 31 December 2013 was USD 1,293.0 million, representing 74% of total assets. A total of 7,000 new shares were issued during Q4 2013 in relation to stock options exercised by key employees in November 2013. During the quarter, the Company bought back 195,000 shares. As of 31 December 2013, TGS holds 1,416,200 treasury shares. BACKLOG TGS’ backlog amounted to USD 281.1 million at the end of Q4 2013, an increase of 97% from the level one year ago. This is the highest backlog in the history of TGS and is mainly caused by significant pre-funding on large multi-client 3D investments in Australia that have attracted significant industry support. MUSD Beginning net book value Non-operational investments Operational investments Amortization Exchange Rate Adjustment Ending net book value 758.1 651.2 2010 424.3 4.0 295.3 2011 475.7 - 276.9 (241.5) 651.2 (107.0) - - - 496.2 (387.3) 475.7 511.1 758.1 95.3 (118.9) 92.4 (247.9) 651.2 (1.3) - (2.1) Q4 2012 2013 438.9 - 774.0 671.2 3.5 - (329.8) Q4 2013 2012 511.1 31.1 MUSD Net MC revenues Change in MC revenue Change in MC investment Amort. in % of net MC revs. Change in net book value Q4 2013 261.8 -3% 2013 -9% 566.9 46% 2010 12% 2012 902.0 59% 90% 43% 27% -7% 2011 52% 41% 44% -3% 43% 7%16% 56% 40% -2% -3% -17% 4% 13% 543.0 268.6 824.1 Q4 2012 22%
Cybercom Group AB (publ) Box 7574, SE-103 93 Stockholm, Sweden Tel +46 8 578 646 00 To the editor 28 March 2017 Cybercom reveals bias using a social experiment Cybercom has developed True Colors, an app intended to demonstrate that external attributes influence how people perceive each other. Cybercom wanted to use a filmed social experiment to highlight the problem of unintentional bias and the importance of diversity in the IT industry. There are many different factors behind the low proportion of women in the IT sector. Cybercom wanted to use a filmed experiment to reveal that unintentional bias is one of these, and it developed an augmented reality (AR) app called True Colors for the test. “We strive to create a workplace for everyone at Cybercom. Diversity, whether in terms of gender, age, ethnicity or religion, is hugely important to us, and is critical to the continued development of our business. But we also understand that there are a number of challenging factors for the IT industry to overcome in order to achieve real diversity. One of these is unintentional bias, which is why we have chosen to highlight the problem using an experiment,” says Niklas Flyborg, Cybercom’s CEO. Once the user inserts their smartphone into the headset and targets the camera at another person, that person’s voice becomes distorted and their image is anonymised into a colourful chameleon. The app makes it impossible to identify or unconsciously judge a person based on how they appear or sound. During the experiment four test subjects were asked to wear the headset. They were then positioned in front of four other people with different professions and interests, who talked about their backgrounds. At the next stage, the test subjects were asked to remove the headset and look at the people they had been listening to, before trying to pair each story with the right individual. Their guesses were mostly wrong, and the people were paired according to a more stereotypical image of their professions and interests. “We wanted to use True Colors and the experiment to show that anyone can judge people from the wrong preconceptions, without even being aware of it. Along with many of our industry colleagues, we are making active efforts to use various ways to highlight and change the factors that make diversity in the sector so low, particularly the proportion of women. There are many explanations, of course, not least that we need to make IT and technology more attractive to women as well as counteract prejudice and smash the glass ceiling. We hope this experiment will help to make us all think a little more,” says Kristina Cato, Head of Communications at Cybercom.Cybercom Group AB (publ) Box 7574, SE-103 93 Stockholm, Sweden Tel +46 8 578 646 00 Watch the experiment here: https://youtu.be/cz_C5Wiweg0 About Cybercom’s diversity efforts:  In 2015, the AllBright foundation recognised Cybercom as the best in the technology industry in terms of the proportion of women in leadership roles, with 36 % women in the executive team. Cybercom is working actively to attract more women to the company by participating in various training opportunities and events, most recently by sponsoring Women in Tech.  At the end of 2016, the proportion of women employed by Cybercom was 18 %, but with a target to achieve at least as many female employees as the proportion of women graduating from the technical universities, i.e. at least 30 % in the long term.  In order to engage girls and boys in the industry at an earlier age, Cybercom regularly invites parents and their children to learn to code and to be inspired to gain an interest and curiosity in IT and technology. Cybercom is also a principal partner to Hello World, which organises camps and meetups for children and young people throughout Sweden to be digitally creative during their weekends and school holidays.  Cybercom has a large proportion of employees from international backgrounds, and participates in initiatives such as Talents without Boarders, Good Malmö and LinkedIn’s Welcome Talent to further boost these numbers. Former UN Secretary- General Ban Ki-moon visited Cybercom in Stockholm following our work with labour migration. For further information, please contact: Niklas Flyborg, President and CEO +46 705 94 96 78 Kristina Cato, Head of Communications and Sustainability Accelerator +46 708 64 47 02 About Cybercom Cybercom is an IT consulting company that enables leading companies and organisations to benefit from the opportunities of the connected world. Each individual employee is a win for us. It is our employees who drive forward Cybercom’s development. Our consultants, and the solutions we create, take us all the way from public sector e-services in Sundsvall, Stockholm and Helsinki to operators and mobility in the Caribbean islands, via the UN Global Compact, driverless cars, national electronic identification, connected sewing machines and elevators. The company’s areas of expertise span the entire ecosystem of communication services and security. Cybercom’s domestic market is the Nordic region, and in addition the company offers global delivery capacity for local and international business. Cybercom was founded in 1995. Find out more at www.cybercom.com
Vitec • Finans & Forsikring Danmark • www.vitecsoftware.com/finansforsikring Press Release SDC chooses PORTMAN from Vitec 2017-10-27 Contents Danish version ........................................................................................................................................................ 2 SDC vælger PORTMAN fra Vitec .......................................................................................................................... 2 English version ........................................................................................................................................................ 3 SDC chooses PORTMAN from Vitec .................................................................................................................... 3Danish version SDC vælger PORTMAN fra Vitec 27. oktober 2017 Pressemeddelelse Vitec har indgået aftale med SDC omkring udskiftning af SDCs nuværende porteføljestyringssystem. SDC-bankerne vil derfor tage Vitecs porteføljestyringssystem PORTMAN i brug, suppleret med rådgivningsløsningen COCKPIT. Løsningen vil samlet give lige knap 2.000 rådgivere overblik over slutkunders investeringer, og understøtte SDC- bankernes porteføljestyring og kunderapportering indenfor investeringsområdet. SDC har vurderet at Vitecs løsninger matcher de behov SDC har til et system, hvorved man kan håndtere forskelligartede aktivtyper, lave løbende rebalanceringer og attraktiv kunderapportering. Et vigtigt parameter i valget er den indbyggede MiFID II-løsning samt TWR beregningsmetoden. Vitecs produkt PORTMAN baserer sig på en markedskonform platform, med muligheden for at tilføje forskellige moduler i takt med at behov og krav løbende ændrer sig i et dynamisk marked.  Vi har valgt PORTMAN fra Vitec, fordi det giver os en omkostningseffektiv, simpel og moderne løsning, fra en stærk nordisk leverandør, udtaler Mikkel Kallerup Olsen, Development Director SDC.  Det er med en god blanding af stolthed og ydmyghed at vi har underskrevet denne aftale med SDC. SDC er en strategisk vigtig partner for os, der med et stærkt professionelt fodaftryk i den finansielle branche i Norden matcher Vitecs strategi fuldstændigt, samtidigt har vi i processen oplevet en rigtig god kemi mellem vore virksomheder. Jeg er sikker på at vi i fællesskab kan sikre succes for SDC’s kunder i mange år, udtaler Kim Møller Jensen, CEO Vitec Finans & Forsikring i Danmark. SDC– Powering great banking experiences SDC er en kundeejet nordisk datacentral, der dagligt servicerer 120 små og store pengeinstitutter fra hele Norden. SDC har dyrket fællesskabet om en nordisk IT-platform i mere end 50 år, og servicerer kunder i Danmark, Norge, Sverige og på Færøerne. Vitec – To rely on today and tomorrow Vitec Finans & Forsikring i Danmark er en del af Vitec Software Group. Vitec Finans & Forsikring i Danmark tilbyder løsninger der opfylder alle professionelle krav til portefølje- og risikostyring, treasury og børshandel og de bruges af nogle af de mest succesrige virksomheder i markedet. Vores services dækker alt fra rådgivning og analyse, over integration og implementering til hosting. For mere information kontakt: Kim Møller Jensen, CEO Vitec Finans & Forsikring i Danmark, telefon +45 6313 6176 Lars Stenlund, CEO Vitec Software Group, telefon +46 70 659 49 39Press Release – SDC chooses PORTMAN from Vitec 3 English version SDC chooses PORTMAN from Vitec 27. oktober 2017 Press Release Vitec has entered into agreement with SDC, that SDC will replace its current portfolio management software. The SDC-banks will commence the use of Vitec’s portfolio management software product PORTMAN, in addition with the investment advisor solution COCKPIT. The solution will provide almost 2.000 investment advisors with an overview of customer’s investments, and support the SDC-banks portfolio management and client reporting within the investment area. SDC found that Vitec’s products matches the needs SDC has for a cross asset system, capable of supporting continuous portfolio rebalancing and providing an attractive solution for client reporting. An important parameter in choosing the PORTMAN solution is the integrated support of MiFID II, as well as the calculation method of TWR. Vitec product PORTMAN is based on a standardized platform, with the possibility to adapt different individual modules, as needs and demands changes in a dynamic capital market.  We decided to use PORTMAN from Vitec, as it provides us with a cost-effective, simple and modern solution from a strong Nordic supplier, says Mikkel Kallerup Olsen, Development Director SDC.  It is with a mix of pride and humility, that we have signed this agreement with SDC. SDC is a strategically important partner to us, as they with a strong and professional footprint in the Nordic financial sector matches Vitec’s business strategy completely. Moreover, we experienced a good cultural match between our businesses during the process of finalising the agreement. I feel confident, that our collaboration will support the success for the clients of SDC in many years to come, says Kim Møller Jensen, CEO Vitec Finance & Insurance in Denmark. SDC A/S – Powering great banking experiences SDC is a customer owned Nordic datacenter, which in a daily basis serves 120 small and large banks in all the Nordic countries. SDC has lived the community for a joint Nordic IT- platform for more than 50 years, with clients in Denmark, Norway, Sweden and on the Faroe Islands. Vitec – To rely on today and tomorrow Vitec Finance & Insurance in Denmark is part of Vitec Software Group and provide solutions which meet all professional requirements for portfolio and risk management, treasury and stock exchange trading, and they are used by some of the most successful companies on the market. Our services cover a full range from consultancy and analysis via integration and implementation to hosting. For more information, please contact Kim Møller Jensen, CEO Vitec Finance & Insurance in Denmark, tel. +45 6313 6176 Lars Stenlund, CEO Vitec Software Group, tel. +46 70 659 49 39
Cybercom Group AB Box 7574, 103 93 Stockholm, Sweden Tel +46 8 578 646 00 To the editor 14 September 2017 Cybercom’s app assists with healthcare research Researchers at Blekinge County Council and Blekinge Institute of Technology commissioned Cybercom to develop the CyberPoll app, a secure survey tool that can be used for applications such as healthcare studies. CyberPoll is intended to document ongoing studies or surveys to immediately provide accurate results. The design of the system is entirely generic so the nature and timing of the questions is chosen by those responsible for the study. In turn, the user chooses the time of day he or she wishes to respond to the questions and receives a notification at the right time. The benefit of this service to healthcare is that, compared to a traditional survey, it significantly reduces the delay between a patient experiencing a feeling and then responding to the survey questions. This reduces the risk of systematic errors and produces a more reliable result. “Digitalisation creates opportunities that were previously not possible, such as in this example being able to conduct real-time surveys directly within the user’s normal routine. We hope that this will provide even better data in areas such as research studies in the future,” says Johan Persbeck, Head of Cybercom Karlskrona. Johan Persbeck, Head of Cybercom Karlskrona. The mobile service will be tested in an initial study this autumn. CyberPoll’s real-time surveys provide the potential for rapid feedback and can be used in a number of areas to efficiently generate evaluation data.Cybercom Group AB Box 7574, 103 93 Stockholm, Sweden Tel +46 8 578 646 00 For further information, please contact Cybercom: Johan Persbeck, Head of Cybercom Karlskrona +46 703 791 006 Kristina Cato, Sustainability Accelerator and Head of Communications +46 708 644 702 About Cybercom Cybercom is an innovative IT consulting firm that enables leading companies and organisations to benefit from the opportunities of the connected world. Our consultants and the solutions they create take us all the way from e-services in the Nordic public sector to mobility in the Caribbean islands, streaming media and autonomous cars in Europe, national e-IDs, secure card payments, as well as health apps for the care sector, connected cranes and elevators and intelligent industrial robots. Cybercom was founded in 1995. Today, the company’s areas of expertise span the entire ecosystem of communication services and IT security. We are a highly diverse company, with a large age range and 45 nationalities. We are creating the world of tomorrow in unison, we are creative, fearless and inquisitive – always ready to challenge the status quo. We turn our words into action and empower change. We are the #Makers of tomorrow. Cybercom has been a privately owned company since 2015. Its main shareholders are JCE Group AB and Tequity AB. Cybercom’s domestic markets are the Nordic region and Poland, and in addition the company offers global delivery capacity for local and international business. www.cybercom.com
ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB Press Release, 2016-10-18 ExpreS2ion announces the initiation of a Phase I/IIa clinical trial for a new blood-stage malaria vaccine Horsholm, Denmark, October 18, 2016 – Today, ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB (“ExpreS2ion”) announces that its collaboration partner, the Jenner Institute of the University of Oxford, initiates a Phase I/IIa clinical trial to assess the safety, immunogenicity, and efficacy of the blood-stage Plasmodium falciparum malaria antigen RH5.1, which is produced in ExpreS2ion’s proprietary platform, ExpreS2. The Vaccine RH5.1 is a novel, recombinant malaria antigen developed at the Jenner Institute. It is based on recombinant RH5.1 protein produced in the ExpreS2 platform using Drosophila Schneider 2 cells. RH5.1 is a part of a larger protein complex expressed by the malaria parasite during infection, helping it to invade red blood cells and causing the disease. The RH5.1 vaccine is intended to block red blood cell invasion and thus the progression of the disease. The study The present study is funded by Leidos Inc as part of the company’s prime contract with the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) for the creation and testing of malaria vaccines. The clinical trial will include 36-48 healthy UK volunteers. The initial purpose is to assess the safety of the vaccine and the extent of the immune response, as well as to identify the optimal dosing regimen of the vaccine. A following step of the trial will test how effective the vaccine is at preventing malaria by comparing individuals from this study given the best dose of the vaccine will be compared to subjects who have not received the vaccine, when challenged with malaria parasites. The first part of the study will run for at least one year. Background Malaria is a major global problem, with 3.2 billion people living at risk of malaria infection. In 2015, malaria was thought to have caused 438,000 deaths, most of which (70%) occurred in children under five years old. Currently, there is no generally approved vaccine available for malaria, which means that there is a great need for a safe, effective malaria vaccine. The Jenner Institute and the University of Oxford The Jenner Institute is a research partnership between the University of Oxford and the Pirbright Institute focused on the development of vaccines against major global diseases. The University of Oxford’s Medical Sciences Division is one of the largest biomedical research centres in Europe. The University is rated as the best in the world and it has one of the largest clinical trial portfolios in the UK and great expertise in taking discoveries from the laboratory into the clinic. CEO Steen Klysner comments “It is a pleasure to announce the initiation of the blood stage malaria clinical trial by such a highly esteemed collaboration partner, and we are proud that the ExpreS2 platform has become an enabling technology for this exciting project.” Certified Advisor Sedermera Fondkommission is appointed as Certified Adviser for ExpreS2ion. For further information, please contact: ExpreS2ion Biotechnologies, Steen Klysner, CEO Telephone: +45 2062 9908 E-mail: sk@expres2ionbio.com This press release contains information that ExpreS2ion is obligated to make public pursuant to the EU Market Abuse Regulation. The information was submitted for publication through the agency of the contact person set out above at 10.00 CET, October 18, 2016.ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB Press Release, 2016-10-18 About ExpreS2ion ExpreS2ion Biotechnologies ApS, is a fully owned Danish subsidiary of ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB with company register number 559033-3729. The subsidiary has developed a unique platform technology, ExpreS2, enabling cost effective development and robust production of complex proteins for new vaccines and diagnostics for e.g. Malaria and Zika. Since founded in 2010, the company has used its patented ExpreS2 platform to produce more than 200 proteins in collaborations with research institutions and biopharmaceutical companies, with a superior efficiency and success rate.
Press release Copenhagen, November 16, 2016 NOT FOR RELEASE, PUBLICATION OR DISTRIBUTION, DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY, IN THE UNITED STATES, AUSTRALIA, CANADA, HONG KONG, JAPAN OR SOUTH AFRICA OR IN ANY OTHER JURISDICTION IN WHICH THE DISTRIBUTION, PUBLICATION OR RELEASE WOULD BE UNLAWFUL OR REQUIRE REGISTRATION OR ANY OTHER MEASURES. Acarix to apply for listing on Nasdaq First North Premier Acarix, a Swedish/Danish commercial stage medical device company specializing in non- invasive, non-radiation acoustic rule-out of Coronary Artery Disease (CAD), today announced that it has decided to apply for a listing of the company’s shares on Nasdaq First North Premier in Stockholm (the “IPO”). In connection with the IPO, the company intends to raise approximately SEK 140 million, an amount which is already fully secured through subscription undertakings and guarantee commitments. The funds raised will primarily be used to execute the company’s commercialization strategy and anticipated launch in Q2 2017 with initial focus on Germany, UK, Sweden and Denmark for the already CE-marked CADScor®System. It also follows shortly after a major strategic investment from the Chinese company Puhua Jingxin Guzhou Health Management Partnership (Puhua Jingxin). Puhua Jingxing will also participate and subscribe shares in the upcoming initial public offering (IPO). Vator Securities will act as global co-ordinator and sole bookrunner in the initial public offering. The CADScor®System combines acoustic detection of turbulent arterial flow and myocardial movement with advanced algorithms in a handheld device to provide a patient specific CAD-score in less than 10 minutes. According to Acarix CEO Søren Rysholt Christiansen the CADScor®System meets a major unmet need: “Coronary Artery Disease affects more than 120 million people worldwide but the current diagnostic pathway, which can rapidly escalate to expensive and potentially harmful imaging and invasive coronary angiography, is inefficient. For example, a recent Danish study showed that more than 90% of patients presenting symptoms to their general practitioner do not have CAD. With the Acarix CADScor®System we have an easy to use non-invasive tool able to rule out CAD with 96% negative predictive value. This also translates into a potential to reduce onward patient referrals by ~50%. – a win-win for patients, payers and physicians.” Contacts for Acarix A/S: Søren Rysholt Christiansen, CEO, E-mail: dksrc@acarix.com Phone: +45 2777 1112Notes to editors: Acarix , CADScor®System and cardiac sound measurement Acarix A/S was established in 2009 as a spin-out company from Coloplast A/S. Since 2010 key investors Seed Capital (DK) and Sunstone Life Science Ventures (DK) have financed the development of the company and supported it towards market introduction. While some founders remain in the company, Acarix has attracted a highly experienced management team who have held senior positions in international medical device companies - CEO Søren Rysholt Christiansen with ELOS Medtech, GN ReSound and Cook Medical. Acarix’s CADScor®System is based on pioneering research at Aalborg University. It has long been known that both cardiac contraction movement and turbulent flow can generate sound. Contraction related sounds are in lower frequency, whereas turbulent sounds in the streaming blood caused by partial obstruction (stenosis) in the coronary arteries are of higher frequencies. The detection of these murmurs is delicate, since the energy of the murmurs is very weak. Detecting and recording the coronary murmurs requires not only an advanced sensor but also means for proper attachment to the skin above the heart to optimize the recorded signal and to avoid external noise. The Acarix CADScor®System has been designed to be an all-in-one system in the sense that the heart signal will be recorded, processed and displayed as a patient specific score, the CAD-score, on the device screen. The CADScor®System contains the necessary electronics to instruct professionals during use and guide the patient through the recording periods. The system also contains a docking station for daily qualification of the sensor. Further the system integrates with an adhesive patch for locking the CADScor® sensor to a fixed position above the heart during the recording. The software embedded in The Acarix CADScor®System ensures that adequate recording conditions are controlled at every examination, whether performing your examinations in a quiet clinical settings or at busy GP clinics, at high altitudes (>95% coverage) or on the move. The CADScor® System is CE Marked (by TÜV in 2015) and due for commercial launch in 2017. See more at www.acarix.com Important information This announcement is not and does not form a part of any offer for sale of securities. Copies of this announcement are not being made and may not be distributed or sent into the United States, Australia, Canada, Hong Kong, Japan, South Africa or any other jurisdiction in which such distribution would be unlawful or would require registration or other measures. The securities referred to in this announcementhave not been and will not be registered under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and accordingly may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act and in accordance with applicable U.S. state securities laws. The company does not intend to register any offering in the United States or to conduct a public offering of securities in the United States. Any offering of securities referred to in this announcement will only be made by means of a prospectus. This announcement is not a prospectus for the purposes of Directive 2003/71/EC (together with any applicable implementing measures in any Member State, the “Prospectus Directive”). Investors should not invest in any securities referred to in this announcement except on the basis of information contained in the aforementioned prospectus. In any EEA Member State other than Sweden that has implemented the Prospectus Directive, this communication is only addressed to and is only directed at qualified investors in that Member State within the meaning of the Prospectus Directive, i.e., only to investors who can receive the offer without an approved prospectus in such EEA Member State. This communication is only being distributed to and is only directed at persons in the United Kingdom that are (i) investment professionals falling within Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005, as amended (the “Order”) or (ii) high net worth entities, and other persons to whom this announcement may lawfully be communicated, falling within Article 49(2)(a) to (d) of the Order (all such persons together being referred to as “Relevant Persons”). This communication must not be acted on or relied on by persons who are not Relevant Persons. Any investment or investment activity to which this communication relates is available only to Relevant Persons and will be engaged in only with Relevant Persons. Persons distributing this communication must satisfy themselves that it is lawful to do so. Matters discussed in this announcement may constitute forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical facts and may be identified by words such as “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “intends,” “estimate,” “will,” “may,” "continue," “should” and similar expressions. The forward-looking statements in this release are based upon various assumptions, many of which are based, in turn, upon further assumptions. Although the company believes that these assumptions were reasonable when made, these assumptions are inherently subject to significant known and unknown risks, uncertainties, contingencies and other important factors which are difficult or impossible to predict and are beyond its control. Such risks, uncertainties, contingencies and other important factors could cause actual events to differ materially from the expectations expressed or implied in this release by such forward- looking statements. The information, opinions and forward-looking statements contained in this announcement speak only as at its date, and are subject to change without notice.
Diös Fastigheter owns and develops both commercial and residential properties in prioritized growth areas in northern Sweden. With a market value of SEK 12.5 billion, a portfolio of 353 properties and a lettable area of 1.400 sq., our vision is to be the most active and sought-after landlord in our market. The properties are located from Borlange to Luleå with its head office in Östersund. The company has since 2005 had a continuous growth in value in the property portfolio and the share is listed on Nasdaq OMX Stockholm, Mid Cap. Learn more about Diös on www.dios.se Press release Östersund 2015-10-05 Diös Fastigheter double its property portfolio in Skellefteå Diös Fastigheter acquire five properties totalling 51 000 sq. in central Skellefteå. Sellers are Skellefteå kommun, Fastighets AB Polaris and Skellefteå Kraft. – The transaction is a natural step in our strategy to concentrate our property portfolio to central locations in growth areas in northern Sweden. Skellefteå meets our investment criteria and we see great opportunities to take an active role in the development of an attractive city, says Knut Rost, CEO of Diös Fastigheter. – To achieve our goal of becoming 80,000 citizens, we need to allow more players to develop commerce and other business activities in the city and the municipality, says Lorents Burman (S), Mayor. The acquisition, which takes the form as company acquisition, doubles Diös Fastigheter holdings to a total of 104 000 sq. The underlying property value is SEK 653 million. The properties consist of 60 per cent offices, 19 per cent hotels and 21 per cent other. The largest tenants are the municipality of Skellefteå, Scandic Hotels and Tieto. The average lease term is 6.1 years. The properties included in the transaction are Hjorten 5, Sleipner 5, Sirius 16, Sirius 24 and Sirius 25. The properties will be transferred on December 1st 2015. For further information, please contact: Knut Rost, CEO of Diös Fastigheter Phone: +46 (0)10-470 95 01 E-mail: knut.rost@dios.se Göran Fonzén, Head of Diös Fastigheters business area Västerbotten Phone: +46 (0)10- 470 98 50 E-mail: goran.fonzen@dios.se This constitutes information that Diös Fastigheter AB (publ) may be legally obliged to publish under the Securities Market Act and/or the Financial Instruments Trading Act. The information was released for publication on 5 October 2015 at 10:32 am CET.
Press release A revolution in your hands. Troax already has a well-proven machine safety system named Smart Fix, where the panels are bolted to the post with the unique Smart Fix fittings. Now, Troax has again listened to the market and the needs of its customers, leading to the next stage in development; an improved Rapid Fix, a system that not only complies with Machinery Directive 2006/42/EC, but is also so flexible, simple and strong that it will revolutionise the entire industry. The combination possibilities are revolutionary The most revolutionary aspect of the new system is that since Rapid Fix is based on the same parts as Smart Fix, it is possible to combine the two. If you already have an existing Smart Fix installation and you want to change to Rapid Fix for quick access when something happens or for maintenance, all you have to do is simply change the brackets. Of course, you can do the opposite if you want to have Smart Fix with fixed panels on certain parts of the installation. Some advantages of Rapid Fix • Fast installation • Simple height adjustment of the brackets • Allows easy access to machines for maintenance • Fully compatible with our present Smart Fix System • Strong steel construction Rapid Fix - A refined machine safety system Some probably know the name Rapid Fix. Troax already has a proven machine safety system with similar features. Rapid Fix has now been further developed, resulting in comprehensive changes together with many unique benefits.”We listen to and care about our customers. In future, it will be possible to upgrade, select and combine the two systems instead of having to replace an already installed Smart Fix system. This was the idea throughout the development process,” says Martin Ask, Product Manager Automation and Robotic Applications area at Troax AB. The new system has the same posts and panels as Smart Fix. The major difference is the system’s two smart and unique brackets, which create the revolutionary functionality. ”Smart fix only has one type of bracket top and bottom. Rapid Fix uses two different brackets. The lower bracket on Rapid Fix has a slot that the panel hooks into. The upper bracket has a unique locking mechanism that snaps the panel in the locked position. The brackets mean that the panels can be reinstalled quickly and easily,” concludes Martin. 2012-01-09 Int. Head Office: Troax AB P.O. Box 89 SE-330 33 Hillerstorp Sweden Phone +46 (0)370 828 00 Fax +46 (0)370 824 86 info@troax.com www.troax.com
Press release Östersund 2017/09/07 Diös Fastigheter owns and develops both commercial and residential properties in prioritized growth areas in northern Sweden. With a market value of approx. SEK 19 billion, a portfolio of 347 properties and a lettable area of 1,580,000 sq.m, our vision is to be the most active and sought-after landlord in our market. The properties are located from Borlänge to Luleå with its head office in Östersund. The company has since 2005 had a continuous growth in value in the property portfolio and the share is listed on Nasdaq OMX Stockholm, Mid Cap. Learn more about Diös on www.dios.se Diös Fastigheter AB (publ), Box 188, SE-831 22 Östersund | Phone: +46 770-33 22 00, info@dios.se, www.dios.se | Corp Id: 556501-1771 Diös wins EPRA Gold Most Improved sBPR Award 2017 Diös has won EPRA Gold Most Improved sBPR Award 2017 for its sustainability reporting following EPRAs Best Practice Recommendation on Sustainability Reporting. The award was announced yesterday at the EPRA 2017 conference, which this year took place in London. EPRA, the European Public Real Estate Association, is the voice of the publicly traded European real estate sector. EPRA’s mission is to promote, develop and represent the European public real estate sector. This will be achieved through the provision of better information to investors and stakeholders, active involvement in the public and political debate, improvement of the general operating environment, promotion of best practices and the cohesion and strengthening of the industry. - We have taken great steps for reporting on our sustainability efforts for 2016 and it is very enjoyable that we receive this award. Sustainable business in all areas, which generates long-term profitability that takes responsibility for both human and environment, is a key to success. We are convinced that our strategy of sustainable urban development is going to drive growth for our stakeholders, our cities, and not least for ourselves, says Kristina Grahn-Persson, Director of Business Support, Diös Fastigheter. For further information, please contact: Kristina Grahn-Persson, Director of Business Support, Diös Fastigheter Phone: +46 (0)10-470 95 70 E-mail: kristina.grahn-persson@dios.se Johan Dernmar, Investor Relations, Diös Fastigheter Phone: +46 (0)10- 470 95 20 E-mail: johan.dernmar@dios.se
P re s s R e le a s e Page 1 of 1 Lund, Sweden, October 29, 2014 FOR FURTHER INFORMATION, PLEASE CONTACT Håkan Persson, CEO, Precise Biometrics AB Telephone; +46 46 31 11 05 or +46 734 35 11 05, E-mail; hakan.persson@precisebiometrics.com Precise Biometrics is a market-leading provider of solutions for fingerprint recognition to prove people's identities. With top-of-the-line expertise in fingerprint verification, Precise Biometrics offers fast, accurate and secure authentication of a person. The technology adds value to ID, enterprise and bank cards as well as access to mobile solutions, computers and networks. Precise Biometrics serves business and government organizations throughout the world and its technology is licensed to close to 160 million users. For more information, please visit www.precisebiometrics.com Precise BioMatch Mobile™ in new smartphone On October 29th, 2014, Fingerprint Cards (FPC) announced that the first smartphone using the touch fingerprint sensor FPC1021 have been launched by Oppo. Precise Biometrics has delivered the fingerprint algorithm, Precise BioMatch Mobile™ that is used with FPC1021. “The demand for fingerprint algorithms for small sensors in mobile devices continues to increase. The fact that a leading Chinese smartphone vendor has chosen a solution with our technology is yet another proof that we are world leading within this area," says Håkan Persson, CEO of Precise Biometrics. Precise BioMatch Mobile provides integration of fingerprint matching functionality into smartphones or tablets and is optimized for small sensors in mobile environments through a unique hybrid algorithm. The algorithm has achieved excellent test results in NIST Ongoing MINEX and MINEX II and has been supplied to over 100 million users worldwide. Precise Biometrics AB (publ) may be required to disclose the information provided herein pursuant to the Securities Markets Act. The information was submitted for publication at 16.30 on October 29, 2014.
PRESS RELEASE Göteborg, 19 June 2017 Ulrika Drotz Molin resigns from the position as CFO Ulrika Drotz Molin has decided to leave the position as CFO at Smart Eye as of September 15. Ulrika has been a member of the management and has, in addition to financial issues, also been responsible for HR and recruitment. “Ulrika has contributed to the development of Smart Eye since the listing on Nasdaq First North in December 2016. The company has managed to move positions forward and strengthened the company's financial communication. I wish Ulrika good luck in her further career”, concludes Martin Krantz, CEO at Smart Eye. Recruitment of new CFO for Smart Eye AB has begun. This information is information that Smart Eye AB (publ) is obliged to make public pursuant to the EU Market Abuse Regulation. The information was submitted for publication, through the agency of the contact person set out below, at June 19, 2017 at 13:50 CET. For more information, please contact or visit http://corp.smarteye.se: Martin Krantz, CEO Phone: +46 70-329 26 98 Email: martin.krantz@smarteye.se About Smart Eye AB Smart Eye develops and markets systems for eye tracking, that is, system that can measure and calculate the exact location of what a person is looking at. The company currently has two business areas: Research Instruments and Applied Solutions. Research Instruments provides Smart Eye eye tracking- systems for advanced measurement and analysis of human behavior. Applied Solutions provides Smart Eye eye tracking software for integration into vehicles. Erik Penser is Certified Adviser and can be reached at 08-463 8000.
Pressrelease 2013-06-27 13:00 Vitec Software Group AB (publ) is a publicly traded software company that offers its own industry-specific business software. Vitec focuses on sectors where there are specific needs that cannot be effectively met by providers of general business systems. The company has annual sales of about 360 million SEK and has about 300 employees. Vitec is listed on Nasdaq OMX, Stockholm. www.vitec.se Main office: PO Box 7965, S-907 19 Umeå, Sweden. Switchboard: +46 9 90-15 49 00, Fax +46 90-15 49 07 Scholt Energy Control selects forecasting tool from Vitec Scholt Energy Control has signed an order with Vitec to use the forecasting tool Aiolos. The tool will be used for forecasting Scholt’s Solar Power Plants in The Netherlands and in Belgium. With this deal Vitec enters a new market both geographically as well as technically since this is the first deal for Vitec in Belgium and the first related to forecasts of Solar Power. Energy Suppliers with responsibility for power balance like Scholt and actors that produce, sell or purchase electricity there is a great need of forecasting tools. To have reliable forecasts on how much energy will be produced within the company’s solar power plants is as important as its electricity business. Vitec has created qualified tools that can convert weather forecasts into detailed solar power forecasts. - Solar Power Forecasts are an important part of our daily tasks and we are in a constant need of fast and accurate forecasts. Aiolos meets our requirements and we believe that the tool will be a good support for decisions in our daily business says Sander Drissen, responsible for electricity business at Scholt. - We are very happy that Scholt has selected Aiolos to support their Solar Power Forecasts. As the expansion of solar energy in Europe increases, so does the need for good forecasting tools. The deal with Scholt also means that Vitec establishes itself I a new market which opens up for additional business says Jerker Vallbo, CEO of Vitec Energy. Scholt Energy Control Scholt was founded in 2005 and markets and sells energy and energy-related services to business customers in Belgium and Holland. Among the services offered are portfolio management, energy development and construction of renewable energy sources such as wind and solar power. Vitec – Business Unit Energy Vitec Energy develops, markets and sells IT systems to utility companies. The systems include a forecasting system for electricity and district heating load, wind and solar power forecasting and GIS & documentation system for electricity and district heating distributors. The business unit has a turnover of approximately 20 million SEK / year and is part of Vitec Software Group AB (publ). For more information please contact Jerker Vallbo, Vitec, tel: +46 70 346 66 58 Sander Drissen, Scholt Energy Control, tel: +31 040 368 1223
ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB Press Release, 2017-03-30 ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB announces that the OptiFemVac Consortium has received final Eurostars approval of its grant application for development of a novel Zika vaccine Hørsholm, Denmark, March 30, 2017 – Today, ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB announces that the fully owned subsidiary ExpreS2ion Biotechnologies ApS (“ExpreS2ion”) has received the final approval of a Consortium Agreement together with Abera Bioscience AB and the University of Copenhagen, for a Eurostars grant for the project named ‘OptiFemVac’. The approval of the Consortium Agreement triggers a grant of approx. EUR 750,000 of which ExpreS2ion expects to receive approx. EUR 300,000. The approval follows the initial approval which ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB communicated in a press release on January 23, 2017. The OptiFemVac project The aim of the Consortium is to develop new vaccines for female reproductive and infant health. The Consortium combines special delivery platforms based on both virus and bacteria, which potentially enable superior, long-lasting and cost effective vaccines. The main focus of the OptiFemVac project is the development of a Zika vaccine, but the potential for a combined Human Papilloma Virus (HPV) and Placental Malaria (PM) vaccine will be also be addressed. The Consortium plans to have proof of concept in animals within one year from initiation of the work. The Eurostars grant The Consortium’s grant application is approved under the project name OptiFemVac (see https://www.eurostars- eureka.eu/project/id/11019) with ExpreS2ion as project lead. The overall project budget amounts to EUR 1.6M, which covers a period of 36 months. The awarded grant is approx. EUR 750,000 of which ExpreS2ion can expect to receive approx. EUR 300,000. According to the approved Consortium Agreement, ExpreS2ion’s activities will be initiated immediately and mainly take place in 2017 and the funding will thus be recognised in the fiscal year 2017. Abera Bioscience AB Abera Bioscience AB is a private Swedish biotech company, which has developed a new and unique platform for vaccine enhancement and delivery of vaccines. The core element is Outer Membrane Vesicles (OMVs) that can deliver multiple antigens of choice at a high density. Additional information about Abera can be found on www.aberabio.com. University of Copenhagen The Centre for Medical Parasitology (CMP) is a collaboration between the University of Copenhagen and Rigshospitalet (DK). CMP’s research is focused on malaria and it is part of a well-established international scientific network composed of scientists in Europe, Africa, America and Australia. More than 60 scientists and technicians are affiliated at CMP, for more information see www.cmp.ku.dk/english. CEO Dr. Steen Klysner comments “I am very pleased that the Consortium Agreement was approved and that we can initiate the project. The combination of unique front-end technologies held by the Consortium is a very competitive combination for the development of new efficient vaccines against Zika and HPV/malaria. Furthermore, if successful, the applied platform has potential for application in other similar indications, as well as therapeutic vaccines like cancer.” Certified Adviser Sedermera Fondkommission is appointed as Certified Adviser for ExpreS2ion. For further information about ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB, please contact: Dr. Steen Klysner, CEO Telephone: +45 2062 9908 E-mail: sk@expres2ionbio.comExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB Press Release, 2017-03-30 This press release contains information that ExpreS2ion is obligated to make public pursuant to the EU Market Abuse Regulation. The information was submitted for publication through the agency of the contact person set out above on March 30, 2017. About ExpreS2ion ExpreS2ion Biotechnologies ApS, is a fully owned Danish subsidiary of ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB with company register number 559033-3729. The subsidiary has developed a unique platform technology, ExpreS2, enabling cost effective development and robust production of complex proteins for new vaccines and diagnostics for e.g. Malaria and Zika. Since founded in 2010, the company has used its patented ExpreS2 platform to produce more than 200 proteins in collaborations with research institutions and biopharmaceutical companies, with a superior efficiency and success rate.
LUND APRIL 12, 2018 Page 1 of 1 P R E S S R E L E A S E Precise Biometrics publishes the annual report for 2017 Precise Biometrics has published the annual report for 2017 on its website. The annual report is available at https://precisebiometrics.com/investor/financial-information/reports/ where it can be printed. Printed samples of the annual report can also be ordered by contacting the company on investor@precisebiometrics.com This information is information that Precise Biometrics AB is obliged to make public pursuant to the Securities Markets Act. The information was submitted for publication at 8.00 CEST on April 12, 2018. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION, PLEASE CONTACT Torgny Hellström, Chairman of the Board Telephone: +46 733 45 13 00 E-mail: torgny.hellstrom@precisebiometrics.com ABOUT PRECISE BIOMETRICS Precise Biometrics is a market-leading supplier of solutions for convenient and secure authentication of people’s identity. We develop and sell fingerprint software that provide the market’s best user experience and security. Our solutions are used hundreds of millions of times every day by people all over the world and are marketed together with strong business partners. For more information, please visit https://precisebiometrics.com Follow us on LinkedIn and Twitter.
Cybercom Group AB Box 7574, 103 93 Stockholm, Sweden Tel +46 8 578 646 00 To the editor 24 May 2017 Cybercom will develop the mobile app for Finnish authorities’ communication with citizens The Finnish Population Register Centre has selected Cybercom to develop and maintain the mobile apps for the Suomi.fi Messages service. The contract will run from 2017 to 2021. The project is part of the Ministry of Finance's National Architecture for Digital Services programme, which is being implemented by the Population Register Centre. The digitalisation of Finnish public administration is taking another major step forwards. In line with government guidelines, the plan for the future is to send messages from authorities to citizens primarily to an electronic postbox instead of via paper mail. Paper mail will still be sent to citizens who are not able to use e-service channels. The Suomi.fi online service provides public administration customers with access to public services, their own data and electronic messages sent by public administrative bodies to citizens – all of this in a simple form, in one place. “Internet use has shifted heavily to mobile devices, and we have also very strongly applied the mobile first thinking in the planning of Suomi.fi services. All of our online services are responsive, and for digital messaging we are also creating downloadable mobile apps for iOS and Android devices. The apps allow us to implement many features that facilitate the user experience compared to just the browser version,” says Janne Viskari, Director, Digital Services, at Population Register Centre. The first versions of the Suomi.fi Messages mobile app will be released this year on Android and iOS. A good user experience and a high level of availability are very important aspects of mobile services designed for citizens. “The development of Suomi.fi's mobile apps represents a significant advancement in the range of public digital services offered to citizens. Suomi.fi's mobile messaging services will help citizens interact with authorities electronically. Indeed, we are confident that when the mobile app is developed, it will be used by millions of people in Finland. We are pleased that this project will further reinforce the collaboration between Cybercom and the Population Register Centre,” says Veli-Matti Nurminen, Managing Director, Cybercom Finland. For further information, please contact: Janne Viskari, Director, Population Register Centre +358 295 535 022 Veli-Matti Nurminen, Managing Director, Cybercom Finland +358 50 385 9911 Kristina Cato, Head of Communications, Cybercom Group +46 708 644 702Cybercom Group AB Box 7574, 103 93 Stockholm, Sweden Tel +46 8 578 646 00 About Cybercom Cybercom is an innovative IT consulting firm that enables leading companies and organisations to benefit from the opportunities of the connected world. Our consultants and the solutions they create take us all the way from e-services in the Nordic public sector to mobility in the Caribbean islands, streaming media and autonomous cars in Europe, national e-IDs, secure card payments, as well as health apps for the care sector, connected cranes and elevators and intelligent industrial robots. Cybercom was founded in 1995. Today, the company’s areas of expertise span the entire ecosystem of communication services and IT security. We are a highly diverse company, with a large age range and 45 nationalities. We are creating the world of tomorrow in unison, we are creative, fearless and inquisitive – always ready to challenge the status quo. We turn our words into action and empower change. We are the #Makers of tomorrow. Cybercom has been a privately owned company since 2015. Its main shareholders are JCE Group AB and Tequity AB. Cybercom’s domestic markets are the Nordic region and Poland, and in addition the company offers global delivery capacity for local and international business. www.cybercom.com
Smart Eye AB, Första Långgatan 28B, 413 27 Gothenburg, Sweden Tel: + 46 31 60 61 60 Fax: +46 31 701 05 15 E-mail: info@smarteye.se Gothenburg, March 8, 2018 Press release Smart Eye’s technology continues to defend its position The Embedded World Congress in Nürnberg has just finished, the world's largest exhibition for embedded systems. Autonomous vehicles are at the moment the biggest development area in digital technology and electronics, and therefore also the obvious theme for this year's conference. Smart Eye was represented by its partner NXP. Following the CES (Consumer and Electronics Show) in Las Vegas in early January, Embedded World Congress was this year's next major trade fair in electronics and digital technology. Once again, digital solutions for the automotive industry were at the heart of everyone’s interest. Like at CES, Smart Eye was represented by the semiconductor manufacturer NXP. Smart Eye’s technology for head‐ and eye‐ tracking was showcased together with NXP’s i.MX8 application processor. "Once again being selected to showcase our safe, reliable and high‐quality head‐ and eye‐tracking technology is incredibly gratifying. It once again consolidates our technology's competitiveness in the automotive industry. Smart Eye offers a platform‐independent software, which strongly contributes to our position as a key partner in the emerging ecosystem of driver monitoring technology," says Martin Krantz, CEO Smart Eye. In total, Smart Eye’s driver monitoring technology has so far achieved 16 design‐wins, of which 13 is for the second generation’s eye‐tracking technology for all car models of a new platform. The many design‐wins has contributed to firmly establish Smart Eye as the industry leading developer of technology that understand and interprets the driver. Further international procurements are currently ongoing, in which the global vehicle manufacturers are establishing supplier relationships for the first and second generations driver monitoring systems. Smart Eye is well‐positioned to achieve further successes in these processes. For more information Martin Krantz, CEO Smart Eye AB Phone: +46 70‐329 26 98 Email: martin.krantz@smarteye.se About Smart Eye Smart Eye was founded to bridge the gap between man and machine for a better tomorrow by developing ground breaking eye tracking technology that understands, assists and predicts human intentions and actions. Through combining deep, technical knowledge with playful creativity, Smart Eye consist of two business units. Its research instruments offer high performance in complex, real‐world situations, paving the way for new insights in aerospace, aviation, automotive, psychology, neuroscience, medical and clinical research. Business unit Applied Solutions are embedded in next generation vehicles, helping the automotive industry take another step towards autonomous vehicles. Founded in 1999, Smart Eye has offices in Gothenburg, Sweden and Michigan, USA as well as having partners, resellers and distributors in Europe, USA and APAC. Its solutions are used by more than 700 clients all over the world by leading research groups, brands and labs such as US Air Force, Nasa, BMW, Lockheed Martin, Audi, Boeing, Volvo, GM, and many more. http://smarteye.se/ Smart Eye is listed on First North. Erik Penser is Certified Adviser and can be reached at +46‐8‐463 8000. Smart Eye’s head‐ and eyetracking‐ technology was showcased in NXP:s boot at Embedded World Congress in Nürnberg.
LUND DECEMBER 30, 2016 Page 1 of 1 P R E S S R E L E A S E Change in number of shares and votes in Precise Biometrics As announced on 14 December 2016, Precise Biometrics has carried out a rights issue of 14,925,373 shares directed to a group of qualified Swedish and international investors. Before the rights issue there were a total of 345,306,094 shares in Precise Biometrics, corresponding to the same number of votes. After the rights issue and per 30 December 2016 there are a total of 360,231,467 shares and votes in the company. This information is information that Precise Biometrics AB is obliged to make public pursuant to the Swedish Financial Instruments Trading Act. The information was submitted for publication, through the agency of the contact person set out below, at 8.00 CET on 30 December 2016. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION, PLEASE CONTACT Håkan Persson, CEO, Precise Biometrics AB Phone; +46 46 31 11 05 or +46 734 35 11 05 E-mail; hakan.persson@precisebiometrics.com ABOUT PRECISE BIOMETRICS Precise Biometrics is a market leading supplier of solutions for convenient and secure authentication of people’s identity. We develop and sell fingerprint software and mobile smart card readers that provide the market’s best user experience and security. Our solutions are used hundreds of millions of times every day by people all over the world and are marketed together with strong business partners. For more information, please visit; http://precisebiometrics.com
PRESS RELEASE 23092016 Serneke issues bond loan of SEK 300 million in the Nordic bond market Aspatof the company's continued growth and expansion, Semeke has ow inplemened itstst transaction inthe Horde aptalmarket hy suing an unsecured ond nan oF SER 300 mon, Teton ka Hay aire re cmengi gcatat anem: Fbon 62> eter coe evs ellie cereal Ss ELL nln, he aeseede Bette fet Ses ea sas i a a Fa esa et ma {oops forisingat te tone har an he \aze= 90th an cc ge Wc 32 apo = tole leasare eee ng Se -nckotakets fst ap tech ei eas matt a sean host ng nl ore et g9C-ps Water y pono wthshesustortalirtorsts1oen 11-3 igvPcart Jnchrasabedband sacar dee gencing I Seuhr ce site ni sy IPS PAE 2 Ma Spon esl Sere, oT Sara mai rere neal aH al a a legalecu ce in ho vanes Formore information, please contact: 02S C0 Toi ecb 705 24ce0 singers nak doer 00 28s Janere Toa a94e70 se: 2ancasstraecnese Develsoment one ecrare macogeren nea 508 epveee, Tepe ner eNNG
TGS Robert Hobbs Kristian K. Johansen Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Q3 2013 Earnings Release2 All statements in this presentation other than statements of historical fact, are forward-looking statements, which are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict and are based upon assumptions as to future events that may not prove accurate. These factors include TGS’ reliance on a cyclical industry and principal customers, TGS’ ability to continue to expand markets for licensing of data, and TGS’ ability to acquire and process data products at costs commensurate with profitability. Actual results may differ materially from those expected or projected in the forward-looking statements. TGS undertakes no responsibility or obligation to update or alter forward-looking statements for any reason. Forward-Looking Statements3 Q3 2013 Highlights  Net revenues were 191 MUSD, down 22% from Q3 2012  Net late sales of 138 MUSD compared to 139 MUSD last year  Net pre-funding revenues of 43 MUSD were down 56%, funding 39% of TGS’ operational multi-client investments for the quarter (111 MUSD)  Average amortization rate for the multi-client library was 41% compared to 44% in Q3 2012  Operating profit for the quarter was 80 MUSD, 42% of net revenues, compared to 101 MUSD (41% of net revenues) in Q3 2012  Four 3D vessels, two 2D vessels and one land crew operating under TGS control in Q3 2013  TGS was also a participant in a 2D marine JV project and one electromagnetic survey JV during Q3 2013  Guidance revised on 8 October 2013 based on lower investments and pre-funding ratios4 Net Revenue Breakdown 2D 17% 3D 74% GPS 9% Q3 2013 2D 16% 3D 77% GPS 7% Q3 2012 Pre- funding 23% Late sales 72% Proprietary 5% Q3 2013 Pre- funding 40% Late sales 57% Proprietary 3% Q3 2012
ExpreS2ion Biotechnologies Announces Research License Agreement with the University of Pennsylvania Horsholm, Denmark, November 8, 2017 – Today, ExpreS2ion Biotechnologies ApS (“ExpreS2ion”), a fully owned subsidiary of ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB, announces that University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, USA, has signed a Research License Agreement granting University of Pennsylvania the right to conduct research using ExpreS2ion’s proprietary protein expression system, ExpreS2. The Research License Agreement The Research License Agreement grants University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, USA, the right to conduct research using ExpreS2ion’s proprietary ExpreS2 system for one year. ExpreS2ion and University of Pennsylvania are not disclosing any terms for the Research License Agreement. The Expres2 Platform ExpreS2ion specialises in solving the toughest protein expression challenges using a fully optimised Schneider 2 (S2) system, based on Drosophila (fruit fly) cells, a set of proprietary protein expression vectors, as well as other components. Our highly experienced scientists are specialised in developing cell lines and processes based on our stable S2 protein expression system, ExpreS2. One of the advantages of ExpreS2 is that it is very robust, meaning that cell lines and processes developed using ExpreS2 are highly reproducible. Another advantage is that high yields can be obtained quickly from polyclonal pools without tedious cloning, which is often needed when using mammalian cells. The platform perfectly supports all phases of drug discovery, R&D and manufacturing and S2 cells have been in use for decades in research and clinical trials by a number of companies and research institutions. ExpreS2ion’s scientists have optimised the S2 protein expression system since year 2000 to its current sophistication and established the proprietary ExpreS2, which was made commercially available in 2010. It has been widely used to produce many hundreds of different proteins of which some have entered clinical trials. As an example, in October 2016, ExpreS2ion’s collaboration partner, the Jenner Institute of the University of Oxford, initiated a Phase I/IIa clinical study to assess the safety, immunogenicity, and efficacy of the blood-stage Plasmodium falciparum malaria antigen RH5.1, which was enabled and produced with ExpreS2. Research and commercial licenses to ExpreS2 are available and we aim to position ExpreS2 as an early stage process- and production tool for customers and collaboration partners, as well as researchers in academic institutions. CEO Dr. Steen Klysner comments “We are pleased that our platform is now part of the R&D and educational toolbox of a strong, highly renowned institution such as University of Pennsylvania, where the advantages of ExpreS2 will sustain the innovation and generation of new projects“. For further information, please contact: ExpreS2ion Biotechnologies ApS, Dr. Steen Klysner, CEO Telephone: +45 2062 9908 E-mail: sk@expres2ionbio.com About ExpreS2ion ExpreS2ion Biotechnologies ApS is a fully owned Danish subsidiary of ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB with company register number 559033-3729. ExpreS2ion’s unique proprietary platform technology, ExpreS2, is designed to enable accelerated, cost effective development and robust production of complex proteins for new vaccines and diagnostics. Since founded in 2010, more than 250 proteins involved in e.g. malaria and Zika were produced in collaborations with research institutions and companies with a superior efficiency and success rate. ExpreS2ion also develops competitive virus-like-particle based vaccines through its joint venture AdaptVac, which was founded in 2017.
Press release 2015-11-26 10:00 (CET) Vitec Software Group AB (publ) is a software company that offers industry specific business applications on the Nordic market. The Company, with operations in Sweden, Norway, Finland and Denmark is growing in the mature part of the software industry by consolidating vertical software segments. Clients include facility management companies, construction and real estate companies, banks and insurance companies, utilities and energy traders, healthcare companies, car spare part dealers and newspaper companies. Group turnover has an annual capacity of 630 million SEK and has approximately 440 employees. Vitec is listed on Nasdaq OMX Stockholm. www.vitecsoftware.com Address: Box 7965, S-907 19 Umeå, Sweden. Phone +46 90 15 49 00 Vitec supplies Acute to Diacor Vitec and the Finnish healthcare company Diacor have signed a contract for using the Acute electronic medical record system. The contract value is 1.5 million euro and the SaaS-contract runs for 36 month. Diacor has chosen the SaaS-based software solution Acute from Vitec. Acute meets the requirements of Diacor as a modern, effective and flexible business system. Vitec Acute is an electronic medical record system. It is delivered as a SaaS application, with cost-effective availability of optional modules and interfaces between various systems. The Acute electronic medical record system is available for use directly through a browser, whenever and wherever you want. - It is important for us that our new business system is a flexible, effective and a long-term solution. Acute from Vitec meets our high demands and with it we see big opportunities to continue developing our business, says Tuomas Teuri, IT-Director of Diacor. - We are very pleased to be a part of Diacor’s progress when they build for the future and make the everyday work easier for their employees, says Ilari Laaksonen, Business Area director for Vitec’s health sector. Vitec– Business Area Health Business Area Health offers software for electronic medical records used for healthcare in Finland. Vitec adapts to the needs of changing healthcare industry and grows alongside with its customers. They have 50 employees within the business area. Diacor terveyspalvelut Oy Diacor has 13 highly modern medical centers in the metropolitan area of Helsinki and one in Turku, and a state- of-the-art day-surgery hospital in the Ruoholahti suburb of Helsinki. Diacor serves their customers with expertise of over 600 physicians. In total they have approximately 1.400 employees and 800.000 visits a year. For more information, please contact Ilari Laaksonen, Vitec, tel +358405551827 Tuomas Teuri, IT-Director, Diacor terveyspalvelut Oy, +358407549507 Disclaimer: Vitec Software Group AB (publ.) is to make the above information public pursuant to the Swedish Securities Market Act or the Swedish Financial Instruments Trading Act. The information will be made public at 10:00 CET on Thursday, November 26, 2015.
ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB Press release, 2017-04-20 ExpreS2ion signs commercial license agreement with ABIVAX for using the ExpreS2 platform in their Ebola program. Horsholm, Denmark, April 20, 2017 – Today, ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB (“ExpreS2ion”), announces that the fully owned subsidiary ExpreS2ion Biotechnologies ApS has entered into a non-exclusive license agreement with ABIVAX S.A. for the commercial use of ExpreS2ion’s expression system, ExpreS2, for their ABX544 Ebola program. The financial terms of the agreement are not disclosed. The agreement follows the term sheet announcement, which ExpreS2ion communicated in a press release on December 12, 2016. The Agreement ExpreS2ion and ABIVAX have signed a non-exclusive license agreement for the commercial exploitation of ExpreS2ion’s Drosophila S2 protein expression system, ExpreS2. ABIVAX is thereby granted rights to commercially develop ABX544 using ExpreS2ion’s proprietary technology, ExpreS2. The financial terms of the agreement are not disclosed. ABX544 – a novel prophylactic and therapeutic treatment of Ebola Ebola virus causes severe and often fatal illness in humans, as demonstrated by the 2014/15 outbreak in Africa, causing disease in >28,000 of which >11,000 died. There is currently no licensed Ebola vaccine or specific treatment on the market. The ABX544 program aims at creating an Ebola anti-serum, containing neutralising antibodies produced in animals. In contrast to vaccines, which takes time to raise a protective immune response, ABX544 will have immediate effect upon administration. It will thereby constitute a “first line of defence” for infected individuals and health care personnel during epidemic outbreaks. Following the preclinical evaluation and toxicology, ABIVAX plans to bring ABX544 into clinical trials. Dr. Steen Klysner, CEO, ExpreS2ion, commented: “I am pleased to see ABIVAX’s exciting ‘first line of defence’ program for Ebola proceed to the next level. We have worked intensely on the program since initiation of the collaboration in 2016 and it is due to the successful outcome of this, that ABIVAX is now ready to advance the project under a commercial license to the ExpreS2system, including potential future milestones and royalties”. About ABIVAX ABIVAX (Euronext Paris: FR0012333284 – ABVX) is an innovative biotechnology company focused on targeting the immune system to eliminate viral disease. ABIVAX leverages three technology platforms for drug discovery: an anti-viral, an immune enhancement, and a polyclonal antibody platform. ABX464, its most advanced compound, is currently in Phase II clinical trials for providing a functional cure for patients with HIV/AIDS. In addition, ABIVAX is advancing a clinical stage immune enhancer as well as multiple preclinical candidates against additional viral targets (i.e. Chikungunya, Ebola, Dengue). Certified Advisor Sedermera Fondkommission is appointed as Certified Adviser for ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB. For further information about ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB, please contact: Dr. Steen Klysner, CEO ExpreS2ion Telephone: +45 2062 9908 E-mail: sk@expres2ionbio.com This press release is information that ExpreS2ion is obliged to make public pursuant to the EU Market Abuse Regulation. The information was submitted for publication, through the agency of the contact person set out above on April 20, 2017. About ExpreS2ion ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB (Nasdaq First North: EXPRS2; CR No. 559033-3729), has through the wholly owned Danish subsidiary ExpreS2ion Biotechnologies ApS, developed a platform technology enabling cost effective and robust production of complex proteins for the development of vaccines and diagnostics for e.g. Malaria and Zika. Since foundation in 2010, the subsidiary has used its patented ExpreS2 platform to produce more than 200 proteins in collaboration with research institutions and biopharmaceutical companies, with an efficiency and success rate superior to competing technologies.
PRESS RELEASE DATE: 2017-07-06 VITEC • www.vitecsoftware.com • info@vitec.se UMEÅ: TVISTEVÄGEN 47 A, 907 29 UMEÅ, SWEDEN. PHONE: +46 90-15 49 00 Vitec Software Group AB (publ) is a Nordic software company that develops and delivers standardised software for industry specific needs. The Group has operations in Sweden, Denmark, Finland and Norway and grows in the mature part of the software industry by consolidating vertical software segments. Our customers include facility management companies, construction and real estate companies, banks and insurance companies, utilities and energy traders, healthcare companies, car spare part dealers and waste management companies . The Group has 500 employees and had 2016 a turnover of SEK 675 million. Vitec is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. Page 1 (1) Vitec acquires MV-Nordic A/S in Denmark Vitec Software Group AB (publ) has on July 6 agreed to acquire all shares in the Danish software company MV-Nordic A/S. The company offers software for the education sector in Denmark, Norway and Sweden. The main product is a cloud- based service for people with read/write disorders. MV-Nordic has annual sales of approximately 110 MDKK with an EBITDA of approximately 11 MDKK. Payment is in cash and a convertible bond with deviation from shareholders' preferential rights in accordance with the authorization of the AGM 2017-04-25. The convertible bonds duration is 3 years, which at full conversion dilutes the capital by 0.8%. The acquisition is expected to directly result in an increase in earnings per share for Vitec. Consolidation is from the acquisition date and the company will be included in the segment "Health and Education". "MV-Nordic is a well-managed company with a business model and product offering in line with our growth strategy. As an industrial player, it is crucial for us that the companies we acquire fits well into our business model and that they share our core values. MV-Nordic is an established and mature company that offers standardized software to a specific industry. They run a profitable business that meets all our criteria," says Lars Stenlund, CEO Vitec Software Group. For more information, please contact Lars Stenlund, VD Vitec Software Group AB (publ), mob. +46 70 659 49 39 Patrik Fransson, IR Vitec Software Group AB (publ) mob. +46 76 942 85 97
TGS Robert Hobbs Kristian K. Johansen Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Q1 2013 Earnings Release2 All statements in this presentation other than statements of historical fact, are forward-looking statements, which are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict and are based upon assumptions as to future events that may not prove accurate. These factors include TGS’ reliance on a cyclical industry and principal customers, TGS’ ability to continue to expand markets for licensing of data, and TGS’ ability to acquire and process data products at costs commensurate with profitability. Actual results may differ materially from those expected or projected in the forward-looking statements. TGS undertakes no responsibility or obligation to update or alter forward-looking statements for any reason. Forward-Looking Statements3 Q1 2013 Highlights  Record high Q1 revenues of 211 MUSD, up 10% from Q1 2012  Continued strong profitability with operating profit (EBIT) of 89 MUSD, corresponding to an EBIT margin of 42%  High Q1 investment activity with new multi-client investments of 126 MUSD, up 24% from Q1 2012  Cash flow from operations before multi-client investments was 179 MUSD, up 22% from Q1 2012  Commercial agreement signed to broker Fugro’s 2D multi-client library on a global basis  Full year 2013 guidance maintained4 Net Revenue Breakdown 2D 25% 3D 68% GPS 7% Q1 2013 2D 16% 3D 74% GPS 10% Q1 2012 Pre- funding 26% Late sales 60% Proprietary 14% Q1 2013 Pre- funding 39% Late sales 59% Proprietary 2% Q1 2012
Smart Eye AB, Första Långgatan 28B, 413 27 Gothenburg, Sweden Tel: + 46 31 60 61 60 Fax: +46 31 701 05 15 E-mail: info@smarteye.se Gothenburg, March 12, 2018 Press release Smart Eye presents at RedEye’s Investor After Work Smart Eye holds presentations at RedEye’s Investor After Work that will be held in Gothenburg Thursday March 15 and in Stockholm Tuesday March 20. Gothenburg March 15, 18:00-20:00, at Elite Park Avenue Smart Eye is presented by Anders Lyrheden, CFO, at 19:20. The presentation is approximately 15 minutes and will be followed by a QnA-session. Besides Smart Eye, there will be an additionally five companies participating in the event. The audience is primarily private investors.  To participate, please register at this webpage: https://www.lyyti.fi/reg/Redeye_Investor_After_Work_8191  The presentation could also be followed in a live webcast, which is accessible at this webpage: https://www.redeye.se/live/investor-aw-15-mars Stockholm March 20, 18:00-20:00, at Mäster Samuelsgatan 42 Smart Eye is presented by Martin Krantz, CEO, at 19:40. The presentation is approximately 15 minutes and will be followed by a QnA-session. Besides Smart Eye, there will be additionally five companies participating in the event. The audience is primarily private investors.  To participate, please register at this webpage: https://www.lyyti.fi/reg/Redeye_Investor_After_Work_Stockholm_5484  The presentation could also be followed in a live webcast, which is accessible at this webpage: https://www.redeye.se/live/investor-aw-20-mars For more information Martin Krantz, CEO Smart Eye AB Phone: +46 70-329 26 98 Email: martin.krantz@smarteye.se About Smart Eye Smart Eye was founded to bridge the gap between man and machine for a better tomorrow by developing ground breaking eye tracking technology that understands, assists and predicts human intentions and actions. Through combining deep, technical knowledge with playful creativity, Smart Eye consist of two business units. Its research instruments offer high performance in complex, real-world situations, paving the way for new insights in aerospace, aviation, automotive, psychology, neuroscience, medical and clinical research. Business unit Applied Solutions are embedded in next generation vehicles, helping the automotive industry take another step towards autonomous vehicles. Founded in 1999, Smart Eye has offices in Gothenburg, Sweden and Michigan, USA as well as having partners, resellers and distributors in Europe, USA and APAC. Its solutions are used by more than 700 clients all over the world by leading research groups, brands and labs such as US Air Force, Nasa, BMW, Lockheed Martin, Audi, Boeing, Volvo, GM, and many more. http://smarteye.se/ Smart Eye is listed on First North. Erik Penser is Certified Adviser and can be reached at +46-8-463 8000.
Cybercom Group AB P.O. Box 7574, SE-103 93 Stockholm, Sweden Tel +46 8 578 646 00 To the editor March 1, 2017 Strategic V2X alliance will speed up autonomous car communication MWC 2017: Preparing V2X technology for series production. CYBERCOM (Sweden) and NORDSYS (Germany) announce a strategic partnership. At the Mobile World Congress taking place in Barcelona from 27th February to 2nd March 2017 two renowned companies, specialised in vehicle communication and infotainment in the automotive and mobile industry, form a new alliance to combine their V2X competences. Signing the contract at MWC 2017: Niklas Flyborg, CEO of Cybercom and Manfred Miller, Managing Director of Nordsys, together with Business Responsible Kristian Palm and Johan Wallin of Cybercom. This cooperation brings together Cybercom’s knowledge and long experience of software development as well as support for series production vehicles, fielding over 30 million car installations with its Bluetooth software application framework blueGO, and Nordsys which brings its profound V2X know-how and core stack technology waveBEE®. Through this partnership Cybercom will offer a generic V2X application framework product named osCar, a platform agnostic software solution offering a complete foundation for robust, secure and easy integration of V2X functionality in clients´ products. The osCar product encapsulates the road-tested Nordsys dual mode stack for ETSI ITS-G5 and IEEE/ SAE WAVE as well as safety applications and software for vehicle integration, offering a high level API minimizing the effort for system application development.Cybercom Group AB P.O. Box 7574, SE-103 93 Stockholm, Sweden Tel +46 8 578 646 00 “Through the V2X pioneer Nordsys we’ve found the ideal partner for our new product osCar. contributing with its leading V2X core stack technology, their position in V2X standardization activities as well as their test and verification tools like waveBEE TOUCH® we are really equipped for meeting our customers’ needs says Mr. Kristian Palm, V2X Business Responsible at Cybercom. “Automotive OEMs and tier 1 suppliers will benefit from this partnership getting a V2X software application framework which will meet all requirements of the automotive industry for fast and easy integration based upon a mature and proven V2X system software with a defined interface for basic V2X functionality” adds Mr. Manfred Miller, MD, Nordsys. V2X communication uses a dedicated wireless network frequency where its participants (vehicles or infrastructure) broadcast messages and allows new types of driver information and driver assistant systems. Besides the optimisation of traffic flow, road safety is of extreme importance, like generating warnings for emergency vehicles, hazardous roads or broken down vehicles. “V2X communication is one of the key technologies for connected, autonomous vehicles of the future which will save lives and contribute to a sustainable environment” says Niklas Flyborg, CEO, Cybercom. For further information, please contact: Kristian Palm, Head of Business Unit Wireless Labs, Cybercom Sweden AB +46 703 79 05 90 Maik Schlote, Head of Market Communication, NORDSYS GmbH +49 531 29 698 850 Niklas Flyborg, President and CEO, Cybercom Group +46 705 94 96 78 Kristina Cato, Head of Communications, Cybercom Group +46708 64 47 02 About Cybercom Cybercom is an IT consultant that assists leading companies and organisations to benefit from the opportunities of the connected world. Our consultants, and the solutions we create, take us all the way from public sector e-services in Sundsvall, Stockholm and Helsinki to operators and mobility in the Caribbean islands, via the UN Global Compact, driverless cars, national electronic identification, connected sewing machines and elevators. The company’s areas of expertise span the entire ecosystem of communications services and security. Cybercom’s domestic market is the Nordic region, and in addition the company offers global delivery capacity for local and international business. With our software products blueGO and osCar we serve the worldwide automotive industry with state-of-the-art connectivity solutions. Cybercom was founded in 1995. Find out more at www.cybercom.com. About Nordsys NORDSYS GmbH, based in Braunschweig – Germany, has over 12 years of experience in communication technology for the automotive industry and is one of the leading companies for the development of software system architectures for V2X communication. This profound V2X knowledge build the basis of the waveBEE® V2X product line featuring development platforms, road side units and analysis systems as well as highly specialised software like complex V2X simulation and the company’s own V2X stack. As partner of prestigious vehicle manufacturers NORDSYS has its key competences in driver assistant systems, infotainment, future mobility solutions and complex simulation. Find out more at www.nordsys.de.
Pr es s Re le as e Page 1 of 1 Lund, Sweden, October 7, 2013 FOR FURTHER INFORMATION, PLEASE CONTACT Thomas Marschall, President and CEO, Precise Biometrics AB Telephone; +46 46 31 11 00 or +46 734 35 11 00, E-mail; investor@precisebiometrics.com Patrik Norberg, CFO, Precise Biometrics AB Telephone; +46 46 31 11 47 or +46 734 35 11 47, E-mail; patrik.norberg@precisebiometrics.comn Precise Biometrics is a market-leading provider of solutions for fingerprint recognition to prove people's identities. With top-of-the-line expertise in fingerprint verification, Precise Biometrics offers fast, accurate and secure authentication of a person. The technology adds value to ID, enterprise and bank cards as well as access to mobile solutions (smart phones and tablets), computers and networks. Precise Biometrics serves business and government organizations throughout the world and its technology is licensed to close to 160 million users. For more information, please visit www.precisebiometrics.com First smart phone with Precise Biometrics’ technology Precise Biometrics’ algorithm is now integrated in a smart phone as the result of the partnership with Fingerprint Cards (FPC). The first smart phone that integrates a FPC sensor with Precise Biometrics Algorithm Precise BioMatch™ Mobile has been introduced on the Asian market. This release is the first of its kind since Precise Biometrics announced in August 2013 that they had entered in an agreement with FPC, a manufacturer of fingerprint sensors. ”We are now seeing the result of our partnership with FPC and we are very pleased that our world-leading technology has been introduced into the smart phone market. It is exciting that it will be available in Asia, which is where the majority of mobile phone manufacturers expected to integrate fingerprint sensors are located,” says Patrik Lindeberg, COO at Precise Biometrics. Precise BioMatch™ Mobile is based on the same algorithm that was top ranked in MINEX and Ongoing MINEX, tests conducted by the U.S. NIST (National Institute of Standards and Technology). Precise BioMatch™ Mobile is optimized for smart phones and tablets with integrated fingerprint sensors. In addition to biometric performance, speed and footprint advantages it also provides efficient handling of rotated fingerprints. This is a crucial feature for the user experience in a mobile environment, and a major advantage over competitive products. Due to confidentiality, Precise Biometrics cannot communicate the name of the mobile manufacturer. Precise Biometrics AB (publ) may be required to disclose the information provided herein pursuant to the Securities Markets Act. The information was submitted for publication at 08:00 am on October 7, 2013.
AIR FILTRATION PRODUCTS & SOLUTIONSCLEAN A IR SOLUT IONS3 As p ar t of o ur p ro gr am fo r co nt in uo us im pr ov em en t, C am fil r es er ve s th e ri gh t to c ha ng e sp ec ifi ca ti on s w it ho ut n ot ic e. Information Camfil air filtration products & solutions Pre-Filtration: G2 to G4 Clean Process Filters: E10 to U17 Air Purifiers & Air Cleaners Housings and Frames Comfort Filters: M5 to F9 APC and Dust Collectors Industrial Molecular Filtration Information Over 50 years of clean air solutions FILTERS FOR EVERY NEED In 1960, Sweden is about to start its nuclear program. Air filtration specialist Gösta Larson realizes that these new power plants need air filters of better quality than ever before. Using low quality air filters in a nuclear plant can quickly turn into a catastrophe. Gösta convinces the nuclear engineers to start using top quality filters and quickly wins a business contract. In 1963, he builds his first factory in Trosa, Sweden. Camfil is founded. Today, with more than 50 years of experience, Camfil delivers clean air solutions to customers and local markets all over the world. With high quality products, we are contributing to something that is essential to everyone – clean air for health, performance and well-being. Comfort • Comfort Ventilation • Schools • Offices • Museums • Airports Clean processes • Life Science • Food • Microelectronics • Hospitals Power systems • Power Generation • Compressors • Oil & Gas Air pollution control • Mining • Metal Working • Life Science/Pharmaceutical Containment • Biosafety Labs • Nuclear • Chem/Bio Protection • Healthcare Industrial • Warehouses • Petrochemical • Foam Industry • Pulp & Paper Gas Turbine Filtration4 A s pa rt o f ou r pr og ra m fo r co nt in uo us im pr ov em en t, C am fil r es er ve s th e ri gh t to c ha ng e sp ec ifi ca ti on s w it ho ut n ot ic e. Information 3 Caring for the environment 5 Would you like to reduce your energy outgoings? 6 Indoor Air Quality (IAQ) 7 Air Pollution and PM1 8 ISO 16890 9 Eurovent certified performance 10 Energy efficiency classification 11 Energy efficiency classification 12 Indoor Air Quality EN 16798-3 13 CREO Software 14 Public buildings 15 Automotive 16 Power systems 17 Food and beverage 18 Hospitals 19 Microelectronics 20 Life Science 21 Pre-Filtration: G3 to G4 22 CityPleat 23 30/30 24 AeroPleat Eco 25 CamMet Double Filter 26 CamMet Metal Filter 27 CamVane 100 28 CamVane 100 HC 29 Media Rolls 30 Fan Coil Filters 31 Hi-Cap 32 Hi-Cap XLS 33 Hi-Cap ProSafe 34 Comfort Filters: M5 to F9 36 Ozone rating 37 City-Flo XL 38 City-Flo 39 Hi-Flo XLT 40 Hi-Flo XLS 43 Hi-Flo M 45 Hi-Flo TM 46 Hi-Flo P 47 Hi-Flo UF 48 Hi-Flo A 50 Basic-Flo 51 Standard-Flo 53 Cam-Flo 55 CityCarb I 56 CityCarb E 57 CityCarb CH 58 CitySorb 59 Opakfil ES 60 Opakfil ST 61 Opakfil 2V 62 EcoPleat Green 63 EcoPleat Eco 64 M-Pleat Green 65 Airopac 66 Airopac High Temp 67 Opakfil ProSafe ES 68 Hi-Flo ProSafe 69 M-Pleat & EcoPleat ProSafe 71 Clean Process Filters: E10 to U17 72 Absolute™ CM 73 Absolute™ DG 74 Absolute™ VG XL, XXL 75 Absolute™ VE XL, XXL E10-E12 76 Absolute™ VE XL, XXL H13-H14 77 Absolute™ VGHF 78 Absolute™ V ProSafe XL, XXL 79 Absolute™ 1D 80 Megalam MD14, MX14, MG14 -1PU 81 Megalam MD14/ME, MD15/ME, MX15/ ME -1PU 82 Megalam MD14, MX14, MG14-GEL 83 Megalam MD15, MX15, MG15 -1PU 84 Silent Hood filter MD14-HL 85 Megalam Fabsafe MD, MX, MG 86 Megalam ES Fabsafe MD, MX, MG 87 Termikfil 2000 88 Absolute™ 1FRK 89 Absolute™ 1FRK-V 90 Absolute™ 1FRSI 91 Absolute™ D-Pyro H13 92 Absolute™ D-Pyro H14 93 Industrial molecular filtration 94 Application matrix 95 Why molecular filtration? 96 Molecular filtration technical services 97 Molecular filtration technical services 98 Activated Carbon and Campure Media 99 Loose-filled deep beds 100 Efficient gas filtration with CamCarb 101 CamCarb PM 102 CamCarb CG 103 CamCarb CM 104 CamCarb Mounting Frames 105 CamCarb VG 106 GigaPleat XPC/XPH 107 GigaPleat NXPP 108 GigaPleat NXPH 109 GigaPleat NXPC 110 GigaPleat NXDP 111 Housings & Containment Systems 112 CleanSeal product overview 113 Absolute Filter Holding Frame 115 Universal filter holding frame 116 CamContain 117 CamBox 118 CamBox S 119 CamSafe 2 120 Connecting Ducts Painted 121 CamCube HF-L 122 CamCube HF-S 124 CamCube AC-L 126 CamCube AC-S 128 CamCube CC-L 130 CamCube AS 132 CamCube AD 134 Pharmaseal-E 136 CamSeal 137 CleanSeal top entry PU gasket 138 Diffusers for CamSeal, CleanSeal and Pharmaseal E 139 CamFFU High Performance HP-EC 140 CamFFU Compact Solution 141 CamFFU Integrated Solution 142 Air purifiers/Air cleaners 143 City S 144 City M 145 CC 300 Concealed 146 CC 800 147 CC 2000 148 CC 1700 & CC 2500 149 CC 6000 150 CC 6000 ProSafe 151 CC 300 Concealed 152 CC 800 153 CC 2000 154 CC 1700 & CC 2500 155 CC 6000 156 CC 6000 (continued) 157 Gas Turbine Filtration 158 30/30 GT 159 CamClose 160 Cam-Flo XMGT 161 Cam-Flo GT Hybrid 162 Cam-Flo GT HV 163 CamGuard 164 Hi-Cap GT 165 CamGT 3V-600 166 CamGT 4V-300 167 CamPGT 168 CamGT Box Type Green II 169 TurboPac 170 CamPulse GTC 171 CamPulse GTD 172 CamPulse GT Polytech HE 173 CamPulse EF 174 Tenkay 175 CamPulse CamBrane 176 APC and Dust Collectors 177 Farr Gold Series® 178 Handte EM Profi 179 Handte Oil Expert 180 Handte Wet Scrubbers 181 Quad Pulse Package 182 HemiPleat® Gold ConeTM 183 DuraPleat DPJ 145 184 DuraPleat DPJ 156 185 DuraPleat DPJ 218 186 DuraPleat DPJ 325 187 DuraPleat DPD 325 188 Information Index
Press release Östersund 2017/09/12 Diös Fastigheter owns and develops both commercial and residential properties in prioritized growth areas in northern Sweden. With a market value of approx. SEK 19 billion, a portfolio of 347 properties and a lettable area of 1,580,000 sq.m, our vision is to be the most active and sought-after landlord in our market. The properties are located from Borlänge to Luleå with its head office in Östersund. The company has since 2005 had a continuous growth in value in the property portfolio and the share is listed on Nasdaq OMX Stockholm, Mid Cap. Learn more about Diös on www.dios.se Diös Fastigheter AB (publ), Box 188, SE-831 22 Östersund | Phone: +46 770-33 22 00, info@dios.se, www.dios.se | Corp Id: 556501-1771 New chief auditor for Diös On September 1st, Diös has hired a new IT manager who is related to the chief auditor. Against this background, Deloitte, in dialogue with the Board of Directors and Nominating Committee, has decided to replace the current chief auditor, Lars Helgesson, with Richard Peters to ensure that no threat to Deloitte's independence does occur. Richard Peters has extensive experience in auditing of real estate companies, e.g., as chief auditor of Wihlborgs Fastigheter AB. For further information, please contact: Rolf Larsson, CFO Diös Fastigheter Phone: +46 (0)10- 470 95 03 E-mail: rolf.larsson@dios.se
ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB Press Release, 2017-October-2 Following its successful rights issue, ExpreS2ion finalises the AdaptVac joint venture Hørsholm, Denmark, October 2, 2017 – Today, ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB announces that the fully owned subsidiary ExpreS2ion Biotechnologies ApS (“ExpreS2ion”) and NextGen Vaccines ApS (“NextGen”) have finalised all agreements for the AdaptVac ApS (“AdaptVac”) joint venture following the successful share issue in August 2017. In addition, ExpreS2ion expects AdaptVac to release additional information on animal data and its primary breast cancer vaccine candidate within the following weeks. AdaptVac was formed to combine the unique ExpreS2 protein development and production platform with the ground-breaking Virus-Like Particle (VLP) technology developed by the founders of NextGen, a spinoff from the University of Copenhagen. AdaptVac is owned in equal parts by ExpreS2ion and NextGen and has been operating under interim management since its foundation June 2017. At a founding meeting today, Dr. Wian de Jong from ExpreS2ion was appointed CEO, whereas Dr. Adam F.S. Pedersen from NextGen was appointed CSO of the company. Dr. Steen Klysner from ExpreS2ion was appointed Chairman of the Board, which has equal representation from ExpreS2ion and NextGen. “Both companies see a big opportunity in combining our cost and time effective ExpreS2 development platform with the Virus-Like Particle technology that enables the use of vaccines and vaccine-like treatments in radical new ways. With these tools, we are also aiming to disrupt the very notion of how to treat common non-contagious diseases such as cancer and allergy”, says Dr. Steen Klysner, ExpreS2ion's CEO. Steen Klysner further explains why AdaptVac has chosen breast cancer as its lead development project: “If we can utilise the advantages of a vaccine-like treatment, such as using a simple needle injection in the patient to trigger the immune system to effectively fight the cancer tumour, it would be a major shift from the costly and resource-demanding treatments that are dominating the market today”. Strong market potential in breast cancer Breast cancer is a widespread oncology indication affecting more than 1.3 million worldwide annually and resulting in more than 450,000 deaths (Tao, 2015: www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25543329). The most common treatment today is based on monoclonal antibodies, where the dominating therapy HERCEPTIN (trastuzumab) generates annual global sales of US$ 7 billion. The target product profile of AdaptVac's lead breast cancer prototype is tailored to be highly competitive both in terms of cost and efficacy, thus aiming at a significant market share. About AdaptVac ApS AdaptVac is a new joint venture between ExpreS2ion Biotechnologies and NextGen Vaccines, combining ExpreS2ions platform with novel proprietary and ground-breaking Virus-Like Particle (VLP) technology, developed at the University of Copenhagen. The company aims to accelerate the development of highly efficient therapeutic and prophylactic vaccines within high value segments of oncology, infectious diseases and immunological disorders. About NextGen Vaccines ApS NextGen Vaccines Aps was founded by researchers from the Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences in Copenhagen University. It has developed a patented technology that enables the development of an entirelyExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB Press Release, 2017-October-2 new class of vaccines. The method may be used broadly for effective treatment of both serious infectious diseases (e.g. Zika Virus, Human Papillomavirus and Malaria) and non-contagious diseases, including cancer and allergy. Certified Adviser Sedermera Fondkommission is appointed as Certified Adviser for ExpreS2ion. For further information about ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB, please contact: Dr. Steen Klysner, CEO Telephone: +45 2062 9908 E-mail: sk@expres2ionbio.com This press release contains information that ExpreS2ion is obligated to make public pursuant to the EU Market Abuse Regulation. The information was submitted for publication through the agency of the contact person set out above on October 2, 2017. ExpreS2ion Biotechnologies ApS, is a fully owned Danish subsidiary of ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB with company register number 559033-3729. The subsidiary has developed a unique platform technology, ExpreS2, enabling cost effective development and robust production of complex proteins for new vaccines and diagnostics for e.g. Malaria and Zika. Since founded in 2010, the company has used its patented ExpreS2 platform to produce more than 250 proteins in collaborations with research institutions and biopharmaceutical companies, with a superior efficiency and success rate.
TradeDoubler AB, Birger Jarlsgatan 57A, 113 56 Stockholm, Sweden T: +46 8 40 50 800 F: +46 8 40 50 844 tradedoubler.com Tradedoubler Appoints Richard Julin as Chief Revenue Officer Senior international executive recruited to drive sales and revenue growth. Tradedoubler, the digital performance marketing company, has appointed Richard Julin to the newly created role of Chief Revenue Officer, effective 7 January 2014. Julin will report to Tradedoubler President & CEO, Rob Wilson. Julin joins Tradedoubler from Mediaplanet, a content marketing company, where he was CEO and President from January 2009 until March 2013. Prior to that, Julin held roles as COO at Mediaplanet and Sales Director at the Swedish TV companies TV3 and TV6. As Chief Revenue Officer at Tradedoubler, Julin will be responsible for leading the company’s team of Regional Directors and the international corporate client team. Commenting on Julin’s appointment, Rob Wilson said, “I am delighted that Richard is joining our senior management team. His operational experience in driving sales and revenue growth will play a key part in delivering the ambitious goals we have set in 2014.” Speaking about his appointment, Richard Julin said, “This is an exciting time to be joining Tradedoubler and I am looking forward to leading the drive for significant, long-term sales and revenue growth across the business.” Stockholm, January 7, 2014 TradeDoubler AB (publ.) For further information, please contact: Rob Wilson President & CEO, Tradedoubler Tel: +44 207 798 5866 E-mail: rob.wilson@tradedoubler.com About Tradedoubler Tradedoubler is an international leader in performance-based digital marketing and technology. Founded in Sweden in 1999, Tradedoubler pioneered affiliate marketing in Europe and remains the most successful pan-European performance marketing company, combining strategic international insight with detailed in- country expertise. It helps 2,000 advertisers achieve their business goals through its high quality network of 140,000 publishers and was the first to offer an integrated e- and m-commerce offering to help advertisers extend their online programmes to users on mobile devices. Tradedoubler is committed to close collaboration with each customer, helping them to generate revenue and succeed on a national and international scale. Among Tradedoubler’s advertisers are American Express, ClubMed, Disney, Expedia and CDON. The share is listed on Nasdaq OMX on the Stockholm Exchange. More information can be found on www.tradedoubler.com
Press release Östersund 2017/02/28 Diös Fastigheter owns and develops both commercial and residential properties in prioritized growth areas in northern Sweden. With a market value, after the acquisition from Castellum, of approx. SEK 18 billion, a portfolio of 345 properties and a lettable area of 1,570,000 sq.m, our vision is to be the most active and sought-after landlord in our market. The properties are located from Borlänge to Luleå with its head office in Östersund. The company has since 2005 had a continuous growth in value in the property portfolio and the share is listed on Nasdaq OMX Stockholm, Mid Cap. Learn more about Diös on www.dios.se Diös Fastigheter AB (publ), Box 188, SE-831 22 Östersund | Phone: +46 770-33 22 00, info@dios.se, www.dios.se | Corp Id: 556501-1771 Number of shares and votes in Diös As previously announced, Diös Fastigheter AB (publ) completed a rights issue of 59,783,304 shares. The total number of shares and votes in Diös has therefore increased during February 2017. As of February 28, 2017, the total numbers of shares in Diös amount to 134,512,438, which represents 134,512,438 votes. For further information, please contact: Knut Rost, CEO Diös Fastigheter Phone: +46 (0)10-470 95 01 E-mail: knut.rost@dios.se Rolf Larsson, CFO Diös Fastigheter Phone: +46 (0)10- 470 95 03 E-mail: rolf.larsson@dios.se This information is information that Diös Fastigheter AB is obliged to make public pursuant to the Securities Markets Act. The information was submitted for publication at 08:00 CET on 28 February 2017.
ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB Press Release, 2017-08-30 ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB: Outcome of rights issue On 24 August 2017, the subscription period of ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB's ("ExpreS2ions") rights issue with a maximum of approx. SEK 3.9 million ended. The rights issue was subscribed at approx. SEK 6 million, corresponding to a subscription rate of approximately 153 percent. Through the rights issue, 872,873 new shares are issued and ExpreS2ion receives approx. SEK 3.9 million before the emission costs of approx. SEK 0.4 million. Settlement notes are due to be sent out today, 30 August, 2017. Note: This is a non-certified English translation of a press release originally drafted in Swedish and published 08:32 CET, 30 August 2017. The Swedish version prevails. CEO Dr. Steen Klysner comments "I would like to thank all those who chose to invest in ExpreS2ion and it is gratifying that the interest in the company and our future plans is high. The cash injected into the company will facilitate our investment and thus our continued work with the Joint Venture company AdaptVac as well as the projects enabled by our part ownership of AdaptVac." Subscription and assignment The rights issue was subscribed to SEK 5,994,252 including subscription commitments, corresponding to a subscription rate of approx. 153 percent. 872,873 shares are newly issued and ExpreS2ion therefore receives approx. SEK 3.9 million before emission costs, which are estimated to amount to approx. SEK 0.4 million. 827,406 shares (equivalent to approx. 95 percent) are awarded to subscribers with preferential rights. Allotment has been made in accordance with the allocation principles as stated in the company's memorandum. The subscribers who receive shares without preferential rights will receive settlement notes, which are sent today, August 30, 2017. Subscribers who are not granted shares will not receive settlement notes. Number of shares and share capital When ExpreS2ion's rights issue has been registered with the Swedish Companies Registration Office, the total number of shares will amount to 9,601,612 and the share capital amounts to SEK 1,066,845.7778. Trade with BTA Trading in BTA (Betald Tecknad Aktie = “Paid Subscription Share”) will take place on Nasdaq Stockholm First North until “Bolagsverket” has registered the rights issue. Registration is scheduled for mid-September 2017. Financial Advisor and Certified Adviser Sedermera Fondkommission is financial advisor for ExpreS2ion in relation to the rights issue. Sedermera Fondkommission is also appointed Certified Adviser for the company. For further information regarding the rights issue, please contact: Sedermera Fondkommission Telephone: +46 (0) 40-615 14 10 E-mail: info@sedermera.se For further information regarding ExpreS2ion, please contact: Dr. Steen Klysner, CEO Telephone: +45 2062 9908 E-mail: sk@expres2ionbio.com This information is information that ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB is obliged to make public in accordance with the EU Market Abuse Regulation. The information was submitted for publication through the agency of the contact person set out above, on 30 August, 2017. ExpreS2ion Biotechnologies ApS, is a fully owned Danish subsidiary of ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB with company register number 559033-3729. The subsidiary has developed a unique platform technology, ExpreS2, enabling cost effective development and robust production of complex proteins for new vaccines and diagnostics for e.g. Malaria and Zika. Since founded in 2010, the company has used its patented ExpreS2 platform to produce more than 250 proteins in collaborations with research institutions and biopharmaceutical companies, with a superior efficiency and success rate.
TGS Robert Hobbs Kristian K. Johansen Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Q2 2014 Earnings Release3 All statements in this presentation other than statements of historical fact, are forward-looking statements, which are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict and are based upon assumptions as to future events that may not prove accurate. These factors include TGS’ reliance on a cyclical industry and principal customers, TGS’ ability to continue to expand markets for licensing of data, and TGS’ ability to acquire and process data products at costs commensurate with profitability. Actual results may differ materially from those expected or projected in the forward-looking statements. TGS undertakes no responsibility or obligation to update or alter forward-looking statements for any reason. Forward-Looking Statements4 Q2 2014 Highlights  Net revenues were 205 MUSD compared to 210 MUSD in Q2 2013  Net late sales of 137 MUSD, down 12% from 155 MUSD in Q2 2013  Net pre-funding revenues of 60 MUSD were up 39%, funding 52% of TGS’ operational multi-client investments for the quarter (114 MUSD)  Operating profit for the quarter was 82 MUSD, 40% of net revenues, compared to 98 MUSD (47% of net revenues) in Q2 2013  Dividend payments of NOK 8.5 per share were paid in June  Four 3D vessels, one 2D vessel and one land crew operating under TGS control in Q2 2014  TGS was also a participant in one 2D marine JV project, one high resolution P-CableTM marine JV project and one CSEM marine project during Q2 2014  TGS awarded new large 3D multi-client project in Australia of 13,000 km25 Continuing to build backlog – Nerites Season 2 Nerites Season 2  Australian 13,000 km2 multi-client 3D survey expected to commence in late 2014 or early 2015  Second season of the Nerites 3D seismic survey to fulfill work program commitment over EPP44 and EPP45 awarded November 2013  Prospective frontier acreage with block relinquishment expected in 2019  Solid prefunding but high amortization due to timing of relinquishments
Press Release PR 0720-01 en BONESUPPORT’s New CEO Purchases Shares Lund, Sweden, 08.00 CET, 13 March 2018 – BONESUPPORTTM, an emerging leader in innovative injectable bio-ceramic bone substitute products to treat bone voids caused by trauma, infection, disease or related surgery based on its unique CERAMENT® platform announces that Emil Billbäck, its recently appointed Chief Executive Officer, purchased 60,000 shares in the Company at a price of SEK 15.07 per share on Friday 9 March. Björn Westberg, the Company’s Chief Financial Officer, bought 20,000 BONESUPPORT shares yesterday at a price of SEK 14.80 per share. Mr Westberg has purchased a total of 60,000 BONESUPPORT shares since the Company’s IPO in June 2017. In addition to his shareholding he holds warrants, which he purchased when he joined the Company in early 2017. About BONESUPPORT™ BONESUPPORT is an innovative and rapidly growing commercial stage orthobiologics company, based in Lund, Sweden. The Company develops and commercializes innovative injectable bio-ceramic bone graft substitutes that remodel to the patient’s own bone and have the capability of eluting drugs directly into the bone void. BONESUPPORT’s marketed bio-ceramic bone graft substitutes CERAMENT® BONE VOID FILLER (BVF), CERAMENT® G* and CERAMENT® V* are all based on the Company’s novel and proprietary CERAMENT technology platform. The Company’s products are targeting a large addressable market opportunity across trauma, chronic osteomyelitis (bone infection), revision arthroplasty (replacement of a joint prosthesis) and infected diabetic foot. BONESUPPORT’s total sales increased from SEK 62 million in 2015 to SEK 129 million in 2017, representing a compound annual growth rate of 45%. The Company’s financial target is to achieve revenue exceeding SEK 500 million in the financial year 2020, with a gross margin exceeding 85 percent and a positive operating profit. The Company’s research and development is focused on the continuing development and refinement of its CERAMENT technology to extend its use into additional indications by the elution of other drugs and therapeutic agents. The Company currently has a pipeline of pre- clinical product candidates that have been designed to promote bone growth. BONESUPPORT is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm and trades under the ticker “BONEX” (ISIN code: SE0009858152). Further information is available at www.bonesupport.com *CERAMENT G: Not available in the United States, for investigational use only. CERAMENT V: Not available in the United States BONESUPPORT™ and CERAMENT® are registered trademarks.Press Release PR 0720-01 en For more information contact: Emil Billbäck, CEO +46 (0) 46 286 53 70 Björn Westberg, CFO +46 (0) 46 286 53 60 ir@bonesupport.com Citigate Dewe Rogerson Pip Batty, David Dible, Shabnam Bashir, Isabelle Andrews +44 (0)20 7282 1022 bonesupport@citigatedewerogerson.com
m > 2 ye ‘ i VB ra \ 3 ‘ ES \ of \- | Ad \ Z ee w HN aaetaat NS : SS vi eS . — cide A eG rN G y 4 NA ; ey S l= e i e' m qf s \ SS \ { 2 Western G v yy ae m SSCS \ eCO E if SSS ee as ‘ i \< 2 NSS \ Ne isd { " SSS eee @ \ ~~ x isa \ SSeS vec \ —= a: \ SSNS ~ e Cs nN a SSSA \ De s roposed 206 ] \ Si : \ re urvey } ' oe Ses } ] SSC oe a i | \ SSS NS ~ ye ( SKS \ WAR \ Asw: t SSS } } Ar \ aie q SSS dummy et \ SX eS us \ a) . KIO \ 4 ee SSK He OR \ oy ee PT 4), . ; $4 2 \ SSK Vo . a . \ Sse | | og Tea > SO X ) : ; Z es é pr ~ OO = oe | SKK > = xc op sg 2 Se ' SKS ‘A : _ eet sn x a Fo Te wy aS ] OKs SK Oy fantdind Balit é _:Medina a2 Kou PY TE ee | SOI ® ( Ba St 1 Shee. | SOK SS Ms / = Rech le ne \ SES ae Soomro Pike he SSNS ee & > j gene] oe rar fa } SSS are s : Boy, a “ . SSK Sy ’ & ey ‘\ SSCS ree es preven Sess A ” ao i — Se SS N ee ‘ SSS Los : ~ SS . iP. ™ O55 “yal ) Co i HEL ) i \ Sy \, ee ee ee i Ly
PRESS RELEASE DATE: 2016-02-19 VITEC • www.vitecsoftware.com • info@vitec.se UMEÅ: TVISTEVÄGEN 47, BOX 7965, 907 19 UMEÅ, SWEDEN. PHONE: +46 90-15 49 00 Vitec Software Group AB (publ) is a software company that offers industry specific business applications on the Nordic market. The Company, with operations in Sweden, Norway, Finland and Denmark is growing in the mature part of the software industry by consolidating vertical software segments. Clients include facility management companies, construction and real estate companies, banks and insurance companies, utilities and energy traders, healthcare companies, car spare part dealers and newspaper companies. Group turnover has an annual capacity of 670 million SEK and has approximately 440 employees. Vitec is listed on Nasdaq OMX Stockholm. Page 1 (1) Great international interest for efficient energy forecasting Energy forecasting seminar in Stockholm held by Vitec attracted delegates from 22 countries. February 17 to 18th, the Nordic software company Vitec invited the energy sector to a two-day seminar on the topic of Efficient Energy Forecasting. Delegates from 35 companies and 22 different countries participated to take part of the eleven sessions given to cover the complexity of forecasting energy consumption and energy production. They also got a fundamental tour in the capacity of the Vitec software Aiolos Forecast Studio. The Vitec software Aiolos Forecast Studio makes advanced forecasting techniques available to energy companies and do also provide vital tools for manual validation and follow up on forecasting accuracy. The studio functionality also invites forecasters to keep third party solutions and simply integrate them to the Aiolos-interface. - ”Accurate forecast on a day to day basis, for our consumption and production portfolio, is a vital tool for our mission to deliver independent and high end trading risk analysis. Aiolos is that tool.” says Kruno Kuljis at Axpo Group, one of the delegates at the seminar. Johan Nihleen from Vitec, VP of sales and marketing at Business Area Energy is satisfied with the seminar. -“This was the first time for us managing, on this scale, a seminar for the industry. Since the interest for Aiolos tend to become more and more global we often provide webinars on the subject of forecasting. But of course there are great values in meeting in person to discuss the challenges and possibilities in the industry, just like we now have done.” says Johan. More information about Vitec Business Area Energy Vitec Business Area Energy offers industry specific software to energy companies and consulting firms in the energy sector. Vitec provides advanced forecasting products for electricity and thermal energy utilities. The software Aiolos Forecast Studio is the market-driving solution in the Nordic market. In the last few weeks the number of renowned international customers has increased. For more information, contact Johan Nihleen, Vitec, VP of sales and marketing at Business Area Energy. Tel +46 (0)703 144 481.
Cybercom Group AB (publ) Box 7574, 103 93 Stockholm, Sweden Tel +46 8 578 646 00 To the editor 14 March 2017 Swedish Mobile Awards calling on Malmö Cybercom is co-hosting this year’s Swedish Mobile Awards with the Mobile Institute. The Mobilgalan event will be held in Malmö on March 16, and the Guldmobilen trophy will be awarded for the 16 consecutive year. “It’s time to shine the spotlight on the Öresund region, which is teeming with amazing and innovative companies and new business ideas that have thrived here for decades. Malmö City and Skåne County are this year hosting the Mobilgalan event for the first time, and we are proud to have helped make this possible,” says Conny Karlsson, Cybercom’s Head of Region in Öresund. The two-day theme is Connect your business – for real, and the programme is all about the Internet of Things, with a focus on real products and services in eHealth, smart cities, VR in practice and transformative digitalisation. “This is perfect for Cybercom. We are Makers of Tomorrow, those who go from words to action and actually develop the solutions of the fourth industrial revolution. It’s thanks to digitalisation and the fact we can connect things to communicate with each other that more of the sustainability challenges of the future can be resolved. This is important, and our clients want help with this,” says Conny Karlsson. The award ceremony takes place at the gala event on March 16, but the programme continues on the following day, when the Guldmobilen finalists will be able to demonstrate their technology. These are game changers from Sweden’s most brilliant start-ups, successful major companies and tech enterprises. In all there are more than 50 strong finalists in 16 categories, including this year’s new categories of Connected Buildings and Connected Transportation. “The energy will be boiling over when Sweden’s start-ups, major technology companies and established enterprises in different sectors meet to share ideas,” says the founder of Mobile Institute, Anders Linger. This is a meeting with and between these people, and is also the main aim of the programme. The gala is arranged by Malmö City, Invest in Skåne, Innovation Skåne and Mobile Heights, along with Altitude Meetings and office hotel United Spaces in the newly constructed Studio venue. View the entire programme and register here http://businessforreal.se/ For further information, please contact: Conny Karlsson, Head of Region Öresund, Cybercom +46 707 10 79 08 Anders Linger, Founder, Mobile Institute +46 704 794 730 Kristina Cato, Head of Communications, Cybercom +46 708 64 47 02Cybercom Group AB (publ) Box 7574, 103 93 Stockholm, Sweden Tel +46 8 578 646 00 About Cybercom Cybercom creates the digital tomorrow. With technical expertise and a profound understanding of business we build sustainable and innovative solutions that enable leading companies and organisations to benefit from the opportunities of the connected world. Our employees are the Makers of Tomorrow. The solutions we create take us all the way from public sector e-services in Sundsvall, Stockholm and Helsinki to UX, mobility and apps in service of the connected consumer and citizens in Gothenburg and Öresund, via the UN Global Compact, driverless cars, national electronic identification, connected sewing machines and elevators, and many other IoT services developed in Poland. The company’s areas of expertise span the entire ecosystem of communication services and security. Cybercom was founded in 1995. Find out more at www.cybercom.com
ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB Press release, 2017-04-06 ExpreS2ion files joint-patent on the production of an improved malaria vaccine with the Walter and Eliza Hall Institute of Medical Research Horsholm, Denmark, April 6, 2017 – Today, ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB (“ExpreS2ion”), announces that the fully owned subsidiary ExpreS2ion Biotechnologies ApS has filed a joint patent application for an improved blood-stage malaria vaccine together with the Walter and Eliza Hall Institute of Medical Research, Melbourne, Australia. This patent positions ExpreS2ion and the Walter and Eliza Hall Institute well for future development of this promising vaccine, addressing a large market with unmet needs. Under a joint vaccine development and patent sharing agreement between ExpreS2ion and The Walter and Eliza Hall Institute, the parties co-own the joint-patent equally. Collaboration The basis of the collaboration and patent filing is the significant advances ExpreS2ion and the Walter and Eliza Hall Institute have made in the production and development of a novel and improved blood-stage malaria vaccine. It is expected that future development of the vaccine will be funded through grants, with the aim of having a vaccine candidate ready for clinical trials in 2018. The patent application has been filed with the Australian patent office, and if approved, the patent is valid until 2037. Under a joint vaccine development and patent sharing agreement between ExpreS2ion and The Walter and Eliza Hall Institute, the parties co-own the joint-patent equally. Despite the urgent medical need for an effective malaria vaccine, no vaccine has yet achieved satisfactory protection against the disease. In a malaria market assessment study by the Boston Consulting Group sponsored by the Malaria Vaccine Initiative, the malaria vaccine demand was estimated to be translated into a global market value of up to $400M per year. About the Walter and Eliza Hall Institute The Walter and Eliza Hall Institute is the oldest research institute in Australia and celebrated its centenary in 2015. Their affiliation with The Royal Melbourne Hospital links research outcomes with clinical practice to accelerate discoveries for health and disease. More than 100 clinical trials based on discoveries made at the Institute are underway. These include trials of vaccines for type 1 diabetes, coeliac disease and malaria, and trials of a new class of anti-cancer agents for treating people with leukaemia and other cancers. More information can be found at website www.wehi.edu.au. Steen Klysner, CEO, ExpreS2ion, comments “We are very pleased with our collaboration with the Walter and Eliza Hall Institute, a very renowned institution in the malaria field. As a consequence, we welcome this opportunity to strengthen our ownership in one of the most promising malaria vaccines currently under development." Certified Advisor Sedermera Fondkommission is appointed as Certified Adviser for ExpreS2ion. For further information, please contact: Steen Klysner, CEO Telephone: +45 2062 9908 E-mail: sk@expres2ionbio.com This information is information that ExpreS2ion is obliged to make public pursuant to the EU Market Abuse Regulation. The information was submitted for publication, through the agency of the contact person set out above on April 6, 2017.ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB Press release, 2017-04-06 About ExpreS2ion ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB, with company register number 559033-3729, has through the wholly owned Danish subsidiary ExpreS2ion Biotechnologies ApS, developed a platform technology enabling cost effective and robust production of complex proteins for the development of vaccines and diagnostics for e.g. Malaria and Zika. Since foundation in 2010, the subsidiary has used its patented ExpreS2 platform to produce more than 200 proteins in collaboration with research institutions and biopharmaceutical companies, with an efficiency and success rate superior to competing technologies.
AarhusKarlshamn AB Phone +46 40 627 83 00 info@aak.com 556669-2850 Jungmansgatan 12 Fax +46 40 627 83 11 www.aak.com SE5566692850001 SE-211 19 Malmö Registered office: Malmö SWEDEN November 11, 2013 Press release AAK and Premier Foods agree a three-year, exclusive, oils and fats collaboration and product co-development AarhusKarlshamn (AAK UK) has been selected by Premier Foods, one of Britain’s largest branded food producers, to be its long term co-development partner for the supply of vegetable oils, fats and related food ingredients as part of a new, three-year collaboration. This partnership is a result of Premier Foods ‘Invest to Grow’ programme, which has enabled new opportunities to strengthen and grow relationships with key suppliers. AAK and Premier Foods have worked together for over 20 years, but this exclusive collaboration will allow true co-development opportunities and will bring exciting, next generation innovations, ideas and technologies for the consumer and generate shareholder value. “Innovation is vital for the food manufacturing sector if it is to continue to produce nutritious and affordable food for a growing population in a very competitive environment. Health, sustainability and manufacturing efficiency are key concerns. We believe that these can be most effectively addressed in the context of a committed partnership between supplier and manufacturer. We are delighted therefore to have been chosen for this exciting collaboration by Premier Foods”, says Martin Craven, Managing Director of AAK UK. “We need the best suppliers to help us achieve our vision to be “The Best in British Food”. The development of long-term partnerships is an excellent way to ensure we can continue to innovate in support of our brands. We are looking forward to working more closely with AAK, whose relevant technical skills are of highest possible calibre and whose products and technologies can be found in every food category across every region of the world”, says Mark Hughes, Group Procurement Director of Premier Foods. As one of Britain's largest food producers, Premier Foods is committed to being “The Best in British Food”-delivering the taste the British love, with food that's made in Britain by people who understand British consumers. Premier Foods supply a range of retail, wholesale, foodservice and other customers with some of Britain's best loved brands, including Ambrosia, Batchelors, Bisto, Hovis, Loyd Grossman, Mr. Kipling, Oxo and Sharwood’s. The company employs around 9,000 people operating from over 35 sites from across the country. AAK is one of the world’s leading manufacturers of high value-added speciality vegetable oils and fats. The business is organised into three areas; Food Ingredients, Chocolate & Confectionery Fats and Technical Products & Feed. AAK’s head office is in Malmö, Sweden, which acts as a central meeting place for the whole Group. The business has procurement and sales offices in key locations around the world. In addition to the UK, AAK has production facilities in Denmark, Mexico, the Netherlands, Sweden, Uruguay and the USA.AarhusKarlshamn AB Phone +46 40 627 83 00 info@aak.com 556669-2850 Jungmansgatan 12 Fax +46 40 627 83 11 www.aak.com SE5566692850001 SE-211 19 Malmö Registered office: Malmö SWEDEN For further information, please contact: AAK Martin Craven Managing Director AarhusKarlshamn UK Mobile: +44 78 36 66 13 70 Fredrik Nilsson Director Group Controlling and Investor Relations Phone: + 46 40 627 83 34 Mobile: + 46 708 95 22 21 Premier Foods Richard Johnson Group Corporate Affairs Director Phone: +44 (0) 1727 815 850 Tom Buchanan / Tom Eckersley Maitland Phone: +44 (0) 20 7379 5151 A Premier Foods image gallery is available using the following link: http://www.premierfoods.co.uk/news-&-media/image-gallery/ The information is that which AarhusKarlshamn AB (publ) is obliged to publish under the provisions of the Stock Exchange and Clearing Operations Act and/or the Trading in Financial Instruments Act. The information was released to the media for publication on November 11, 2013 at 10.00 am CET. AarhusKarlshamn is one of the world’s leading producers of high value-added speciality vegetable fats. These fats are characterized by a high technological content and are used as substitute for butter-fat and cocoa butter, transfree solutions for fillings in chocolate and confectionery products, and in the cosmetics industry. AarhusKarlshamn has production facilities in Denmark, Mexico, the Netherlands, Sweden, Great Britain, Uruguay and the US. The company is organised in three Business Areas; Food Ingredients, Chocolate and Confectionery Fats and Technical Products & Feed. Further information on AarhusKarlshamn can be found on the company’s website www.aak.com.
1 Isofol Medical AB, Biotech Center, Arvid Wallgrens Backe 20, SE-413 46 Gothenburg, Sweden Isofol appoints Gustaf Albèrt as Chief Financial Officer October 3 2017 Isofol Medical AB (publ) has recruited Gustaf Albèrt as Chief Financial Officer. With extensive experience from leading financial positions, Albèrt will strenghten Isofol Medical’s management team in the execution of the company’s development program of the drug candidate Modufolin®. Isofol Medical AB (publ), a clinical stage oncology company, announces the appointment of Gustaf Albèrt as CFO effective as of the 1st of November. Gustaf Albèrt will have an important role in the continued development of Isofol focusing on the pivotal trial ISO-CC-007 where the company’s drug candidate Modufolin® will be evaluated as a first-line treatment for metastatic colorectal cancer. Gustaf Albèrt joins Isofol from a previous position as the CEO of Elanders Sverige AB, a subsidiary of Elanders AB listed at Nasdaq Stockholm Mid Cap. Prior to his employment at Elanders, Albèrt worked for Deloitte as an authorized auditor, where he coordinated major Swedish and international audit assignments. Anders Rabbe, CEO of Isofol, says "With the recruitment of Gustaf Albèrt to the position as CFO, the company's management team is now well-assembled to effectively implement and carry out the company's registration program with Modufolin®. With his experience and personal drive, Gustaf will have an important role in the continued development of Isofol. With an intense and exciting year in front of us, it is with great pleasure I welcome Gustaf to Isofol" For more information, please contact: Anders Rabbe, CEO, Isofol Medical AB E-mail: anders.rabbe@isofolmedical.com Phone: +46 (0)707 646 500 About Modufolin® Modufolin® (active ingredient [6R]-5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate), is a novel folate-based compound developed to increase the efficacy and reduce the side effects of antimetabolites used in cancer treatment. It is the key active metabolite of the widely used folate-based drugs leucovorin and levoleucovorin. As Modufolin® does not require metabolic activation to exert its effect, Modufolin® is suitable for all patients irrespective of their capacity to activate folates. Modufolin® is currently being evaluated in a clinical Phase II study. About Isofol Medical AB Isofol Medical AB is a clinical stage oncology company developing Modufolin® as a first-line treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer and as a rescue drug after high-dose methotrexate treatment in osteosarcoma. Through a worldwide exclusive license agreement, Isofol Medical holds the rights to commercialise Modufolin® with access to the unique patented production process and the production capabilities of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany. Isofol Medical AB is traded on the Nasdaq First North Premier. Certified Adviser is FNCA Sweden AB. www.isofol.se The information was submitted for publication, through the agency of the contact person set out above, at 08:30 a.m. CET on 3 Oktober 2017.
TGS | EARNINGS RELEASE 25 APRIL 2013 TGS EARNINGS RELEASE 1st QUARTER RESULTS 1st QUARTER HIGHLIGHTS  Consolidated net revenues were USD 211 million, an increase of 10% compared to Q1 2012.  Net late sales totaled USD 127 million, up 12% from Q1 2012.  Net pre-funding revenues were USD 56 million, down 25% from Q1 2012, funding 44% of the Company’s operational multi-client investments during Q1 (investments of USD 126 million, up 24% from Q1 2012).  Proprietary revenues were USD 29 million, compared to USD 4 million in Q1 2012.  Operating profit (EBIT) was USD 89 million (42% of net revenues), compared to USD 89 million (46% of net revenues) in Q1 2012.  Cash flow from operations was USD 179 million, up from USD 147 million in Q1 2012.  Earnings per share (fully diluted) were USD 0.58, compared to USD 0.61 in Q1 2012. “We are pleased to report record late sales for a first quarter period confirming the value of our high quality data library. These results put us on track with our 2013 plan,” TGS’ CEO Robert Hobbs stated.Multi‐client Seismic 80% Propr. 13% GPS 7% KEY FIGURES REVENUE BREAKDOWN TGS’ largest business activity is developing, managing, conducting and selling multi-client seismic surveys. This activity accounted for 80% of the Company’s business during the quarter. Geological Products and Services (GPS) accounted for 7% of net revenues in the 1st quarter, while proprietary seismic revenues accounted for 13% of net revenues. Net late sales were up 12% compared to Q1 2012. Net pre-funding revenues totaled USD 55.8 million, a decrease of 25% from Q1 2012. The pre-funding revenues recognized in the first quarter funded 44% of the operational investments of USD 125.8 million in the multi-client library. Proprietary contract revenues during the quarter totaled USD 28.9 million compared to USD 3.8 million in Q1 2012. TGS’ reporting structure is broken down in the following seismic business segments; North and South America (NSA), Europe (EUR), and Africa, Middle East and Asia Pacific (AMEAP). In addition to these areas, several business units are aggregated to form “Other segments.” These segments include GPS Well Data, GPS Interpretations, Global Services, Imaging and Permanent Reservoir Monitoring. The Company’s land seismic projects in North America are reported under the geographic region NSA. Sales from NSA totaled USD 134.5 million in Q1 2013 (USD 72.8 million in Q1 2012). Sales from EUR amounted to USD 27.6 million in Q1 2013 (USD 20.9 million in Q1 2012), while AMEAP had total sales of USD 28.2 million in Q1 2013 (USD 74.4 million in Q1 2012). (All amounts in USD 1,000s) Q1 2013 Q1 2012 Net operating revenues 211,179 191,313 EBIT 89,298 88,912 Pre-tax profit 86,837 87,633 Net income 60,345 62,868 EBIT margin 42% 46% Return on capital employed 35% 27% Equity ratio 73% 72% MC library opening net book value 651,165 511,131 Investments in new projects 125,795 101,181 Amortization (70,146) (73,929) MC library ending net book value 706,814 538,383 Pre-funding % on operational investments 44% 74% NSA 134.5 (64%) Europe 27.6 (13%) AMEAP 28.2 (13%) Other 20.9 (10%)OPERATIONAL COSTS The amortization of the multi-client library for Q1 2013 amounted to USD 70.1 million (USD 73.9 million in Q1 2012) which corresponds to 38% (39% in Q1 2012) of the net revenues from the multi-client library for the quarter. Amortization fluctuates from quarter to quarter, depending on the sales mix of projects. In Q1 2013, 17% of net multi-client revenues came from pre-2009 vintages which are fully written off the books in line with the Company’s amortization policy. Cost of goods sold (COGS) were USD 15.9 million for the quarter, compared to USD 0.4 million in Q1 2012. The increase is due to higher contract vessel activity in Q1 2013 due to the 2D proprietary project in Colombia. Personnel and other operating costs expensed during the quarter were USD 31.3 million, an increase of 23% from 2012, mainly due to increased costs related to employee incentive schemes and operating expenses from Arcis Seismic Solutions Corporation which was acquired by TGS in June 2012. EBITDA AND EBIT Reported EBITDA (Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortization) for the quarter ended 31 March 2013 was USD 162.9 million, which corresponds to 77% of net revenues, down 1% from USD 164.8 million in Q1 2012. Operating profit (EBIT) for the quarter amounts to USD 89.3 million which is slightly up from USD 88.9 million in Q1 2012. FINANCIAL ITEMS TGS recorded a currency exchange loss of USD 4.2 million in Q1 2013, of which the majority is related to unrealized losses from converting USD to NOK on a regular basis to hedge the June 2013 dividend NOK cash payments. Accordingly the unrealized currency exchange losses have no cash effect. TAX For the full year, TGS reports tax charges in accordance with the Accounting Standard IAS 12. Tax charges are computed based on the USD value relating to the appropriate tax provisions according to local tax regulations and currencies in each jurisdiction. The tax charges are influenced not only from local profits, but also from fluctuations in exchange rates between the local currencies and USD. This method makes it difficult to predict tax charges on a quarterly or annual basis. In some tax jurisdictions, the Company receives a tax deduction in respect of remuneration paid as stock options. The Company recognizes an expense for employee services in accordance with IFRS 2 which is based on the fair value of the award at the date of the grant. Management assesses that the normalized operating consolidated tax rate is approximately 31%. The tax rate reported for the quarter is at 31% compared to 28% last year. NET INCOME AND EARNINGS PER SHARE (EPS) Net income for Q1 2013 was USD 60.3 million (29% of net revenues), down 4% compared to Q1 2012. Quarterly earnings per share (EPS) were USD 0.58 fully diluted (USD 0.59 undiluted), a decrease of 5% from Q1 2012.MULTI-CLIENT INVESTMENTS AND LIBRARY The Company’s operational investments in its data library during Q1 2013 were USD 125.8 million, 24% higher than in Q1 2012. The Company recognized USD 55.8 million in net pre-funding revenues in Q1 2013, funding 44% of its operational multi-client investments during the quarter. BALANCE SHEET AND CASH FLOW As explained in note 6 to the Q4 2012 interim financials, TGS expected additional information in February and March 2013 which would be relevant for assessing the fair value of the contingent consideration liability per 31 December 2013 related to the 2011 acquisition of Stingray Geophysical Ltd. In the 2012 Annual Report, the liability was considered at USD 0 per 31 December 2012 based on updated probability assessments concluding that it was not considered probable that the criteria for the earn out payments would be met. An updated impairment test was also performed for the goodwill related to the Stingray acquisition resulting in an impairment of USD 25.0 million. The updated assessment of the contingent consideration and the goodwill did not have any net implications to the 2012 operating profit. The net cash flow from operations for the quarter, after taxes, before investments, totaled USD 178.5 million compared to USD 146.8 million in Q1 2012. As of 31 March 2013, the Company’s total cash holdings amounted to USD 412.3 million compared to USD 338.7 million at 31 December 2012. As of 31 March 2013, TGS held USD 3.7 million in Auction Rate Securities (ARS), all in AAA-rated closed-end funds. TGS classifies its ARS as current financial investments available for sale and has valued its ARS at fair value of USD 3.7 million. Per 31 March 2013, the balance of the provision held between par value and fair value was USD 1.2 million. TGS intends to sell its remaining ARS given the right opportunities. The Company believes that no impairment to goodwill and other intangible assets exists in Q1 2013. TGS currently does not have any interest bearing debt. Total equity per 31 March 2013 was USD 1,229.6 million, representing 73% of total assets. A total of 19,250 new shares were issued during Q1 2013 in relation to stock options exercised by key employees in February 2013. As of 31 March 2013 TGS holds 1,245,700 treasury shares. BACKLOG TGS’ backlog amounted to USD 146.4 million at the end of Q1, an increase of 3% from last quarter and 39% below the level of one year ago. Significant revenue commitments to large onshore projects in early 2012 have been recognized through completion of the projects in the past year. MUSD Beginning net book value Non-operational investments Operational investments Amortization Ending net book value 496.2 (387.3) 651.2 475.7 511.1 2010 424.3 4.0 295.3 2011 475.7 - 276.9 (241.5) (176.7) (70.1) 706.8 101.2 (73.9) 125.8 (247.9) 538.4 266.0 Q1 2012 - 651.2 511.1 - 2012 511.1 31.1 Q1 2013 2009 424.3 335.0 - MUSD Net MC revenues Change in MC revenue Change in MC investment Amort. in % of net MC revs. Change in net book value 2012 902.0 59% 90% 43% 27% 20092011 566.9 46% 2010 12% Q1 2013 182.3 -3% 27% 54% 38% 39% 24% 43% 7% 132% 9% 5% 445.0 -8% -7% 4% -7% 40% 13% 543.0 187.5 Q1 2012 22%
TGS | EARNINGS RELEASE 30 JULY 2015 TGS EARNINGS RELEASE 2nd QUARTER RESULTS 2nd QUARTER HIGHLIGHTS  Consolidated net revenues were USD 140 million, compared to USD 205 million in Q2 2014.  Net late sales totaled USD 82 million, down 40% from USD 137 million in Q2 2014.  Net pre-funding revenues were USD 53 million, down 12% from Q2 2014, funding 45% of the Company’s operational multi- client investments during Q2 (investments of USD 116 million, up 2% from Q2 2014).  Proprietary revenues were USD 5 million, compared to USD 8 million in Q2 2014.  Operating profit (EBIT) was USD 36 million (26% of net revenues), compared to USD 82 million (40% of net revenues) in Q2 2014.  Cash flow from operations was USD 86 million, compared to USD 66 million in Q2 2014.  Earnings per share (fully diluted) were USD 0.24, down from USD 0.59 in Q2 2014. 6 MONTHS FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS  Consolidated net revenues were USD 311 million, down from USD 427 million in 2014.  Net late sales from the multi-client library totaled USD 153 million, down 44% from USD 274 million in 2014.  Net pre-funding revenues were USD 146 million, up 9% from 2014, funding 52% of the Company’s operational multi-client investments during H1 2015 (investments of USD 279 million, up 15% from 2014).  Proprietary revenues were USD 11 million, compared to USD 19 million in 2014.  Operating profit (EBIT) was USD 73 million (23% of net revenues), compared to USD 176 million (41% of net revenues) in 2014.  Cash flow from operations was USD 346 million compared to USD 287 million in 2014, an increase of 21%.  Earnings per share (fully diluted) were USD 0.52, down from 1.25 in 2014. “Demand for seismic data continues to be under pressure and the outlook for improvement in the market remains quite uncertain. Despite this uncertainty, TGS continues to be uniquely positioned within our industry with a strong balance sheet combined with a flexible asset-light business model,” TGS’ CEO Robert Hobbs stated. “Our 2015 revenue guidance remains unchanged”.Multi‐ client Seismic 86% Propr. Seismic 4%GPS10% KEY FIGURES REVENUE BREAKDOWN TGS’ largest business activity is developing, managing, conducting and selling multi- client seismic surveys. This activity accounted for 86% of the Company’s business during the quarter. Geological Products and Services (GPS) accounted for 10% of net revenues in the second quarter, while proprietary seismic revenues accounted for 4% of net revenues. Net late sales for the quarter amounted to USD 81.6 million compared to USD 137.0 million in Q2 2014. Net late sales for the six months ended June 2015 were USD 153.3 million representing a decrease of 44% from the same period in 2014. Net pre-funding revenues in the quarter totaled USD 52.7 million, a decrease of 12% from Q2 2014. The pre-funding revenues recognized in the second quarter funded 45% of the operational investments of USD 116.5 million in the multi-client library. Investments in Q2 included a USD 20 million cash payment to Polarcus related to costs deferred under previous contractual agreements for MC data acquisition in 2014 and 2015. This payment for previous acquisition was negotiated in connection with the purchase of Polarcus’ MC data library, of which a Letter of Intent was entered into on 28 June 2015. During the first half of 2015, pre-funding amounted to USD 146.4 million (52% of operational investments) representing an increase of 9% compared to the same period in 2014. Proprietary contract revenues during the quarter totaled USD 5.2 million compared to USD 8.0 million in Q2 2014. For the six months ended June 2015, proprietary revenues totaled USD 11.4 million, compared to USD 18.6 million in 2014. (All amounts in USD 1,000s) Q2 2015 Q2 2014 YTD 2015 YTD 2014 Net operating revenues 139,554 204,542 311,144 426,864 EBIT 35,733 82,043 73,101 175,831 Pre-tax profit 37,447 83,868 73,465 180,981 Net income 24,464 61,344 53,130 129,361 EBIT margin 26% 40% 23% 41% Return on average capital employed 17% 35% 17% 35% Equity ratio 83% 76% 83% 76% MC library opening net book value 876,144 799,963 818,132 758,093 Investments in new projects 116,497 114,051 279,019 243,502 Amortization (73,704) (85,206) (178,215) (172,571) Exchange rate adjustments - (50) - (267) MC library ending net book value 918,936 828,757 918,936 828,757 Pre-funding % on operational investments 45% 52% 52% 55% NSA 71.2 (51%) Europe 26.8 (19%) AMEAP 22.0 (16%) Other 19.6 (14%)TGS’ reporting structure is broken down in the following seismic business segments; North and South America (NSA), Europe (EUR) and Africa, Middle East and Asia Pacific (AMEAP). In addition to these areas, several business units are aggregated to form an “Other” segment. This segment includes GPS Well Data, GPS Interpretations, Global Services and Imaging. The Company’s land seismic projects in North America are reported under the business segment NSA. Sales from NSA totaled USD 71.2 million in Q2 2015 (USD 103.1 million in Q2 2014). Sales from EUR amounted to USD 26.8 million in Q2 2015 (USD 43.0 million in Q2 2014), while AMEAP had total sales of USD 22.0 million in Q2 2015 (USD 34.6 million in Q2 2014). OPERATIONAL COSTS The amortization of the multi-client library for Q2 2015 amounted to USD 73.7 million, (USD 85.2 million in Q2 2014) which corresponds to 55% (43% in Q2 2014) of the net revenues from the multi-client library for the quarter. Amortization fluctuates from quarter to quarter, depending on the sales mix of projects. The amortization rate for the first six months of 2015 was 59% compared to 42% in the same period in 2014. In Q2 2015, 24% of net multi-client revenues came from pre-2011 vintages, which are fully amortized in line with the Company’s amortization policy. Cost of goods sold (COGS) were USD 0.1 million for the quarter, compared to USD 0.4 million in Q2 2014. The decrease is due to lower proprietary seismic activity in Q2 2015 compared to Q2 2014. Personnel costs expensed during the quarter were USD 17.2 million including restructuring charges of approximately USD 2.1 million related to the cost reduction program implemented in Q1. The substantial decrease in personnel cost from Q2 2014 (USD 21.2 million) is due to a reduction of more than 10% of the global workforce effective 1 April, as well as lower costs related to employee incentive schemes. Other operating expenses were USD 8.8 million compared to USD 10.3 million in Q2 2014, which corresponds to a decrease of 15%. This is another result of the cost reduction program initiated to position the company for the more challenging seismic market caused by the significant drop in oil price. EBITDA AND EBIT Reported EBITDA (Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortization) for the quarter ended 30 June 2015 was USD 112.7 million, which corresponds to 81% of net revenues, down 34% from USD 171.3 million in Q2 2014. Operating profit (EBIT) for the quarter amounts to USD 35.7 million, which is down from USD 82.0 million in Q2 2014. FINANCIAL ITEMS The Company recorded a net currency exchange loss of USD 0.5 million in Q2 2015, which is mainly due to net losses related to translating local currency bank accounts into USD. TGS holds NOK bank accounts primarily to pay taxes and dividends in NOK during 2015. TAX TGS reports tax charges in accordance with the Accounting Standard IAS 12. Taxes are computed based on the USD value of the appropriate tax provisions according to local tax regulations and currencies in each jurisdiction. The tax charges are influenced not only from local profits, but also from fluctuations in exchange rates between the local currencies and USD. This method makes it difficult to predict tax charges on a quarterly or annual basis. Currency effects within the current year are classified as tax expenses. Management assesses that the normalized operating consolidated tax rate is approximately 30%. The tax rate reported for the quarter is at 35% compared to 27% last year. Most of TGS’ taxable income is taxed in Norway where the taxes are calculated and paid in NOK on an annual basis. Of TGS’ total taxes payable at 30 June 2015, taxes payable in Norway represented more than 90%. As the Norwegian taxes are settled on an annual basis, the YTD exchange variation will impact the quarterly calculations oftaxes. Accordingly, the high tax rate in Q2 2015 is mainly due to currency effects for the Parent Company on the taxes payables and to changes in temporary differences measured in NOK. NET INCOME AND EARNINGS PER SHARE (EPS) Net income for Q2 2015 was USD 24.5 million (18% of net revenues), down from USD 61.3 million in Q2 2014. Quarterly earnings per share (EPS) were USD 0.24 fully diluted (USD 0.24 undiluted), which is down 60% from Q2 2014. MULTI-CLIENT INVESTMENTS AND LIBRARY Exchange rate adjustments are related to libraries with functional currencies other than USD BALANCE SHEET AND CASH FLOW The net cash flow from operations for the quarter, after taxes, before investments, totaled USD 86.0 million compared to USD 66.0 million in Q2 2014. A dividend of USD 98.7 million for the 2014 accounting year was paid on 21 May 2015, while dividend withholding taxes of approximately USD 15 million will be paid during July 2015. As of 30 June 2015, the Company’s total cash holdings amounted to USD 175.9 million compared to USD 256.4 million at 31 December 2014. The Company has not recognized any impairments to goodwill or other intangible assets during Q2 2015. TGS currently does not have any interest bearing debt. The company has an undrawn credit facility of USD 50 million and has received a commitment from its existing lender to expand this facility to USD 75 million during Q3. This will enable the company to continue to pursue attractive investment opportunities in a challenging market. Total equity per 30 June 2015 was USD 1,277.2 million, representing 83% of total assets. During the quarter, the Company transferred 2,000 treasury shares to cover the exercise of options by key employees and distributed 8,250 treasury shares to Board members. Further, the Company distributed 8,764 treasury shares as a final payment to former owners of Volant Solutions in accordance with the share purchase agreement signed in May 2012. The shareholders decided at the Annual General Meeting on 6 May 2015 to cancel 1,048,298 treasury shares at that date. Following a mandatory six weeks waiting period, the shares were cancelled in late June. As of 30 June 2015, TGS held 852,800 treasury shares. MUSD Beginning net book value Non-operational investments Operational investments Amortization Exchange Rate Adjustment Ending net book value 2014 758.1 - Q2 2014 6M 2015 6M 2014 243.5 (172.6) 279.0 - 876.1 800.0 - - - (178.2) Q2 2015 918.9 114.1 (85.2) 116.5 (387.3) 828.8 828.8 - (0.1) - (329.8) 818.1 758.1 (73.7) (0.3) (5.6) (2.1) - 462.3 (396.7) 651.2 758.1 2012 511.1 31.1 496.2 2013 651.2 - 438.9 918.9 818.1 MUSD Net MC revenues Change in MC revenue Change in MC investment Amort. in % of net MC revs. Change in net book value 90% 902.0 196.6 299.7 Q2 2014 59% 408.2 6M 2014 -1% 55% 43% 2% 40% 16% 7% 9%12% 4% 42%59% 5% 4% 15% 3% -9% -17% 2013 Q2 2015 134.4 -32% 6M 2015 -27% 824.1 43% 2012 27% 2014 877.7 7% 5% 45% 8%
DVCompact Setting a new standard Fans | Air Handling Units | Air Distribution Products | Fire Safety | Air Curtains and Heating Products | Tunnel Fans2 | DVCompact DVCompact is a high energy efficient unit equipped with the latest technology resulting in the best performance. 12 models ensure optimal sizing up to 40 000 m3/h. All units are supplied in 3-pieces for easy handling and transportation. PM motor PM motors are motors with permanent magnets, based on EC technology. This technology ensures high efficiency over 90%, and remains high even when the speed is reduced. This results in optimizing the unit’s motor efficiency at the operating point. This type of motor must always have an EC module to control the speed. The EC module is a frequency converter with spe- cial software. If DVCompact unit is ordered without control an EC module will be supplied. DVCompact – setting a new standard CPRO impeller CPRO impeller is manu- factured from a moulded composite, which allows it to be formed with optimal aerodynamic design. Impeller blades are partly different in thickness inside the hub and the periphery. This results in higher efficiency and lower noise levels. This also results in improved balancing which reduces vibration. Optimized, rotary heat exchanger High efficiency rotating heat exchanger DVCompact is optimized with maximum wheel diameter and lower coil wave height. This combination makes it possible to select units adapted to the different energy efficient demands: 80% efficiency and SFP <2.0. For example by increasing the size of the unit performance of 85% efficiency and SFP <1.5 can be achieved. All these measures allow getting high efficiency per- formance of the unit that is marked with the label “Green Ventilation”. B x H L L1 L2 Weight 970 2310 820 670 415 1120 2310 820 670 470 1270 2310 820 670 560 1420 2310 820 670 660 1570 2310 820 670 750 1720 2610 970 670 910 2020 2760 970 820 1175 2170 3060 1120 820 1420 2470 3510 1270 970 1900 2770 3660 1270 1120 2640 2920* 3360 1120 1120 3060 3070** 3360 1120 1120 3200 Measurements in mm, weight in kg. 2000 DVC-10 DVC-15 DVC-20 DVC-25 DVC-30 DVC-40 DVC-50 DVC-60 DVC-80 DVC-100 DVC-120 DVC-150 SFP > 2,0 4000 10000 20000 30000 40000 SFP 2,0 and eff. 80%SFP 1,5 and eff. 85% - - - 0 - 5 - 0 -40 -50 -60 -80 DVC-1 0 DVC-120 DVC-150 4 00DVCompact | 3 Integrated control The DVCompact comes standard with integrated controls. Components of the control system are marked by a cross marking system. The control system comes pre-config- ured and tested from the factory. Each unit has 2 control cabinets with easy access and a total of 56 inputs and outputs available for use. Between each unit section there are quick connectors, and a control panel for the frequency converter which is placed on the front panel of the unit for easier control. Bus communica- tion via BMS is prepared via open protocols. Add-ins for Revit Using proprietary Add-ins a unit can be selected by using SystemairCAD and transferred directly into Revit. It will be transmitted when a 3D model is enabled. Connection spigot, dimensions and calculated sound data is supplied. This way you are assured that adequate space is provided for the ventilation unit, and that the correct sound data can be calculated for the plant. App for Android Phones Status of the unit can be checked via phones with Android operating systems. You can acknowledge alarms and ad- just settings such as start and stop times, temperature set point and air flow. The Android App can be downloaded from the Android Market at no charge. Size 20 – 30: are delivered on 150 mm tall feet Size 40 – 80: are delivered on pallets and to be mounted on 150 mm high base frame. Size 100 – 150: are delivered on 150 mm high base frame. * the rotor section is 80 mm higher ** the rotor section is 230 mm higherwww.systemair.com S ys te m ai r · In h ou se s tu di o · J un e 20 13 · E8 23 9
TGS | Q1 2018 EARNINGS RELEASE 9 May 2018 TGS EARNINGS RELEASE 1st QUARTER 2018 RESULTS 1st QUARTER 2018 FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS – SEGMENT REPORTING1 • Strong development in late sales – year-on-year growth of 67% • Improved market conditions driven by higher oil price and improved cash flow of oil companies • Robust cash flow strengthens balance sheet further • Quarterly dividend of USD 0.20 per share, 33% growth year-on-year • 2018 guidance maintained: o New multi-client investments of approximately USD 260 million o Additional multi-client investments expected from sales of existing surveys with risk sharing arrangements o Pre-funding of new multi-client investments expected to be approximately 45-50% 1 Trailing 12 months (All amounts in USD 1,000 unless noted otherwise) Q1 2018 Q1 2017 Net operating revenues 134,759 86,155 -Net prefunding revenue 17,602 15,339 -Net late sales revenue 114,865 68,861 -Net proprietary revenue 2,291 1,955 Operating profit 24,902 1,905 -Operating profit margin 18 % 2 % Pre-tax profit 24,693 2,725 Net income 13,181 1,567 EPS (fully diluted) (USD) 0.13 0.02 Operational investments in new projects 30,732 58,417 -Prefunding % on operational investments 57 % 44 % Risk-sharing investments 3,486 4,924 Non-operational investments 0 5,946 Amortization 83,628 61,815 MC library net book value 749,655 819,871 Return on average capital employed1 13 % 8 % Cash flow from operating activities 102,704 184,520 Free cash flow (after MC investments) 70,831 74,179 Cash balance 301,699 248,090TGS | Q1 2018 EARNINGS RELEASE Page 2 CHANGE OF ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES TGS-NOPEC Geophysical Company ASA (TGS) and its subsidiaries have implemented the new revenue recognition standard, IFRS 15, effective January 1, 2018 as the external financial reporting method. This change impacts the timing of revenue recognition and amortization related to projects that are not yet completed. TGS will, for internal management reporting purposes, continue to use the revenue recognition principles applied historically. The numbers used for management reporting are referred to as “Segment reporting” in this report. See Note 2 for description of basis for preparation. See Note 7 for a description of the change in revenue recognition resulting from the implementation of IFRS 15. TGS will not restate prior periods. FINANCIALS – SEGMENT REPORTING For internal reporting purposes TGS is using segment reporting with net revenues for projects in progress recognized based on Percentage of Completion. The discussion and analysis in this section are based on segment reporting. Net operating revenues Net operating revenues for Q1 2018 amounted to USD 134.8 million, an increase of 56% compared to the USD 86.2 million recognized in Q1 2017. Net pre-funding revenues totaled USD 17.6 million in the quarter versus USD 15.3 million in Q1 of last year. In Q1 2018 the net pre-funding revenues funded 57% of the USD 30.7 million of operational investments in the multi-client library. In the corresponding quarter of last year 44% of the operational multi-client investments of USD 58.4 million were pre-funded. In addition to the operational multi-client investments, the Company recognized investments related to risk sharing arrangements of USD 3.5 million in Q1 2018, compared to USD 4.9 million last year. Net late sales for the quarter amounted to USD 114.9 million, a growth of 67% compared to the USD 68.9 million booked in Q1 2017. Proprietary contract revenues grew 17% to USD 2.3 million in the quarter from USD 1.9 million in Q1 2017. Revenue distribution Source: TGS Multi- client Seismic 86% Propr. Seismic 2% GPS 12% NSA 57.8 (43%) Europe 46.8 (35%) AMEAP 11.2 (8%) Other 18.9 (14%) 2D (19%) 3D (69%) GPS (12%)TGS | Q1 2018 EARNINGS RELEASE Page 3 Operational costs The amortization of the multi-client library for Q1 2018 amounted to USD 83.6 million, which is up from USD 61.8 million in Q1 2017. This includes impairment charges of USD 10 million, mainly related to the decision by the Government of New Zealand to cease awarding new exploration permits. Cost of goods sold (COGS) was USD 0.1 million for the quarter, which is at the same level as in Q1 2017. Personnel costs in the quarter were USD 15.5 million compared to USD 12.4 million in Q1 2017. The increase is primarily due to higher costs related to employee incentive plans. Other operating expenses were USD 8.3 million in Q1 2018 compared to USD 6.9 million in Q1 2017. The increase mainly relates to higher legal costs as a result of the Økokrim charges (see note 8). EBITDA and EBIT EBITDA (Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortization) for Q1 2018 was USD 110.4 million, corresponding to a margin of 82%. In Q1 2017 EBITDA was USD 66.7 million, corresponding to a margin of 77%. Operating profit (EBIT) for the quarter amounted to USD 24.9 million, which is up from USD 1.9 million in Q1 2017. Financial items Net financial items totaled USD -0.2 million compared to USD 0.8 million in Q1 2018. The Company recorded a net currency exchange loss of USD 0.8 million in Q1 2018, mainly as a result of the depreciation of the USD versus NOK. TGS holds NOK bank accounts primarily to pay taxes and dividends in NOK. Tax TGS reports tax charges in accordance with the Accounting Standard IAS 12. Taxes are computed based on the USD value of the appropriate tax provisions according to local tax regulations and currencies in each jurisdiction. The tax charges are influenced not only by local profits, but also by fluctuations in exchange rates between the respective local currencies and USD. This method makes it difficult to predict tax charges on a quarterly or annual basis. Currency effects within the current year are classified as tax expenses. Based on the reduced corporate income tax rate in Norway (23% in 2018) and in the US (21% in 2018), TGS has assessed the normalized operating consolidated tax rate to be at approximately 23% for 2018. The tax rate reported for the quarter is at 47% compared to 42% last year. The high tax rate is mainly due to currency effects, as the NOK appreciated versus the USD during the quarter. The Norwegian taxes are settled in NOK on an annual basis, and the USD/NOK exchange variation will impact the quarterly calculations of taxes. Also, the exchange effects of translating intercompany balances into NOK are taxable in Norway. Accordingly, the tax expense is impacted by items which are not recognized in the consolidated income statement. These items have had limited impact on payable taxes. Net income and earnings per share (EPS) Net income for Q1 2018 was USD 13.2 million (10% of net revenues), up from USD 1.6 million in Q1 2017. Quarterly earnings per share (EPS) were USD 0.13 fully diluted (USD 0.13 undiluted), which is up from USD 0.02 fully diluted (USD 0.02 undiluted) in Q1 2017. Cash flow Net cash flow from operations for the quarter, after taxes and before investments, totaled USD 68.3 million compared to USD 71.1 million in Q1 2017. Free cash flow amounted to USD 70.8 million versus USD 74.2 million in Q1 2017.TGS | Q1 2018 EARNINGS RELEASE Page 4 The Company’s total cash holdings increased by USD 51.8 million during the quarter and stood at USD 301.7 million as of 31 March 2018, compared to USD 248.1 million at 31 March 2017. Multi-client library The net book value of the multi-client library was USD 749.7 million as of 31 March 2018 compared to USD 819.9 million at 31 March 2017. Combined operational multi-client investments and risk-share investments amounted to USD 34.2 million in Q1 2018 (USD 66.3 million in Q1 2017), while amortization was USD 83.6 million (USD 61.8 million in Q1 2017) (see note 5 to the interim financial statements). Backlog TGS’ backlog amounted to USD 74 million at the end of Q1 2018, a decrease of 9% from Q4 2017 and 38% lower than at the end of Q1 2017. FINANCIALS - IFRS REPORTING Following the implementation of the IFRS 15 accounting standard from 1 January 2018, the IFRS accounts are no longer similar to the accounts used for internal reporting. The discussion and analysis in this section are based on IFRS reporting. Key figures - IFRS reporting2 Income statement Net revenues amounted to USD 106.7 million in Q1 2018, compared to USD 86.2 million in Q1 2017. Amortization of the multi-client library was USD 72.4 million versus USD 61.8 million in Q1 2017. Operating profit totaled USD 8.1 million in Q1 2018 compared to USD 1.9 million in Q1 2017. Net income amounted to USD -3.6 million in the quarter, while the same quarter of 2017 showed USD 1.6 million. This resulted in a fully diluted EPS of -0.04 compared to USD 0.02 in Q1 of last year. 2 2017 numbers are not restated (All amounts in USD 1,000 unless noted otherwise) Q1 2018 Q1 20172 Net operating revenues 106,722 86,155 Operating profit 8,074 1,905 -Operating profit Margin 8 % 2 % Pre-tax profit 7,865 2,725 Net income -3,647 1,567 EPS (fully diluted) (USD) -0.04 0.02 Amortization 72,419 61,815 MC library ending net book value 839,696 819,871 Equity ratio 75 % 83 %
ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB News Release, 2017-02-14 ExpreS2ion’s Chief Scientific Officer, Dr. Wian de Jongh, is Appointed Affiliated Associate Professor at the Technical University of Denmark Horsholm, Denmark, February 14, 2017 – Today, ExpreS2ion Biotechnologies ApS (“ExpreS2ion”), a fully owned subsidiary of ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB, announces that its Chief Scientific Officer, Dr. Willem Adriaan (“Wian”) de Jongh, is appointed the honorary position of affiliated associate professor at the Technical University of Denmark (“DTU”). The position is for a duration of five years, commencing in February 2017. The affiliated associate professor appointment The position as affiliated associate professor at DTU for a period of five years starting in February 2017 is an honorary position that the president of DTU, Professor Anders Bjarklev, has offered Dr. Wian de Jongh, CSO at ExpreS2ion, based on a recommendation from DTU Bioengineering and is unanimously approved by the Senate of the University. CSO Wian de Jongh comments “It is with pleasure and great honour that I am accepting the position as affiliated associate professor at DTU. I have had a fantastic journey with this university, from my own student days to my current role as CSO of ExpreS2ion. I look forward to continued collaborations with DTU over the next five years”. CEO Steen Klysner comments “I congratulate Dr. de Jongh with his appointment to affiliated associate professor at DTU which also is a testament to ExpreS2ion engagement in the forefront of bioengineering research with strong links to academia. Dr. de Jongh is co-inventor of the technology platform that is the foundation of ExpreS2ion and I am delighted to have a capacity as Dr. de Jongh in the company’s management team, ensuring a strong R&D profile.” For further information, please contact: ExpreS2ion Biotechnologies, Steen Klysner, CEO Telephone: +45 2062 9908 E-mail: sk@expres2ionbio.com About ExpreS2ion ExpreS2ion Biotechnologies ApS, is a fully owned Danish subsidiary of ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB with company register number 559033-3729. The subsidiary has developed a unique platform technology, ExpreS2, enabling cost effective development and robust production of complex proteins for new vaccines and diagnostics for e.g. Malaria and Zika. Since founded in 2010, the company has used its patented ExpreS2 platform to produce more than 200 proteins in collaborations with research institutions and biopharmaceutical companies, with a superior efficiency and success rate.
Press release Östersund 2015-12-16 Diös Fastigheter owns and develops both commercial and residential properties in prioritized growth areas in northern Sweden. With a market value of SEK 12.6 billion, a portfolio of 351 properties and a lettable area of 1.422 sq., our vision is to be the most active and sought-after landlord in our market. The properties are located from Borlänge to Luleå with its head office in Östersund. The company has since 2005 had a continuous growth in value in the property portfolio and the share is listed on Nasdaq OMX Stockholm, Mid Cap. Learn more about Diös on www.dios.se Diös Fastigheter in Real Estate Transaction with Riksbyggen and Kommunal Diös Fastigheter acquires three central located properties with an area of 14,260 square meters and sells eleven properties with an area of 39,800 square meters in a real estate transaction with Riksbyggen and Kommunal. The underlying property value of the acquisition amount to SEK 149 million and for the sale SEK 321 million. Change of possession will be on 30 December. Of the acquired properties, two are located in Östersund and one in Umeå. Of the total area, 19 per cent are residential and 81 per cent are commercial. The three largest tenants are the Municipality of Östersund, Sportsgym in Östersund and Ramböll in Umeå. Full year rental income is SEK 16 million and the vacancy rate is negligible. Of the sold properties, eight are located in Östersund and three in Umeå, and consists mainly of residential properties. Full year rental income is SEK 35 million and the vacancy rate is negligible. The transaction takes form as company transaction and the underlying property value is in line with the most recent valuation. The results will be reported during the fourth quarter in 2015. – This is a strategic deal were we concentrate our property portfolio towards the city centres. It will make us more efficient and we can increase focus on local presence and service, says Knut Rost, CEO Diös Fastigheter. – Within Riksbyggen we have a clear objective to expand our portfolio of residential properties. Östersund is a city that we know well and believe in, says Carl-Johan Hansson, Head of the Real Estate business in Riksbyggen. For further information, please contact: Knut Rost, CEO Diös Fastigheter Phone: +46 (0)10- 470 95 01 E-mail: knut.rost@dios.se Carl-Johan Hansson, Head of the Real Estate business in Riksbyggen Phone: +46 (0)70-217 47 21 This constitutes information that Diös Fastigheter AB (publ) may be legally obliged to publish under the Securities Market Act and/or the Financial Instruments Trading Act. The information was released for publication on 16 December 2015 at 08:00 a.m. CET.
PRESS RELEASE DATE: 2017-06-21 VITEC • www.vitecsoftware.com • info@vitec.se UMEÅ: TVISTEVÄGEN 47 A, 907 29 UMEÅ, SWEDEN. PHONE: +46 90-15 49 00 Vitec Software Group AB (publ) is a Nordic software company that develops and delivers standardised software for industry specific needs. The Group has operations in Sweden, Denmark, Finland and Norway and grows in the mature part of the software industry by consolidating vertical software segments. Our customers include facility management companies, construction and real estate companies, banks and insurance companies, utilities and energy traders, healthcare companies, car spare part dealers and waste management companies . The Group has 500 employees and had 2016 a turnover of SEK 675 million. Vitec is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. Page 1 (1) Vitec expands revolving credit facility with MSEK 200 Vitec expands its existing revolving credit facility at Nordea with MSEK 200.The facility is for acquisitions and called of gradually. - Through the credit facility, we have secured capital that will allow us to continue the strategic plan to grow through acquisitions of vertical market software companies, says Lars Stenlund, CEO of Vitec Software Group. For more information, please contact Patrik Fransson, IR, Vitec Software Group AB (publ.), Mob. +46 76 942 8597 Disclaimer This information is of such a kind that Vitec Software Group AB (publ.) is legally required to disclose pursuant to the EU’s Market Abuse Regulation and the Swedish Securities Market Act. The information was submitted for publication at 13:00 CET on Wednesday, June 21, 2017.
Press release 12 February 2018 IMPACT COATINGS DELIVERS FUEL CELL COATINGS TO MICHELIN  Production of Ceramic MAXPHASE™ coatings on fuel cell plates for French Michelin’s fuel cell manufacturing  Value of initial order SEK 0.2M  Important order in the European fuel cells market Impact Coatings, which develops and sells world-leading technology for PVD-coatings of fuel cell plates and vehicle reflectors, has received its first production order for Ceramic MAX- PHASE™ coatings from Michelin. The French tire and auto components manufacturer is in a build-up phase in its fuel cell man- ufacturing initiative. Michelin manufactures fuel cell systems for trucks, busses, and automo- biles and has selected coatings from Impact Coatings for its production. Impact Coatings has previously delivered coatings for Michelin’s fuel cell development. De- mand and delivered volumes are now expected to increase gradually during 2018 and 2019 while production of fuel cells increases. A first order for Ceramic MAXPHASE coatings has been received for SEK 0.2M. The coating service will take place at Impact Coatings’ facilities in Linköping, Sweden. ”The cooperation with Michelin is very positive and an important sign that the European fuel cell market is ramping up. Michelin has approved and qualified our coating and is of the view that it has the best performance to increase fuel cell system efficiency,” said Impact Coatings CEO Henrik Ljungcrantz. For more information, contact: Henrik Ljungcrantz, CEO Tel: +46-70-663 55 80 or e-mail: henrik.ljungcrantz@impactcoatings.se Impact Coatings AB (publ) is required to disclose this information in accordance with EU mar- ket abuse regulations. The information was delivered, via the contact person named above, for publication on 12 February 2018, 08:00 CET. About Impact Coatings Impact Coatings delivers world-leading technology for PVD-coatings of fuel cell plates and vehicle reflectors. PVD is a method of, under vacuum, producing thin layers of metals and ce- ramics – surface coatings that maximize performance and durability. Impact Coatings’ pa- tented technology, for example, increases the efficiency of fuel cells 25-30 percent comparedImpact Coatings AB, Westmansgatan 29, SE-582 16 Linköping, Sweden Phone: +46 13 35 99 50, e-mail: info@impactcoatings.se, web: www.impactcoatings.com to other solutions. The company is strategically present in the international market for hydro- gen-fueled vehicles, which is approaching a significant breakthrough. The company’s shares trade since 2004 on the Nasdaq First North exchange (Nasdaq OMX Nordic). The company’s Certified Adviser is Remium Nordic Holding AB.
Cybercom Group AB (publ) Box 7574, 103 93 Stockholm, Sweden Tel +46 8 578 646 00 To the editor 15 November 2016 Cybercom and MTV agree upon Amazon Web Services (AWS) partnership Finland's leading media company, MTV, has selected Cybercom's Passionate Support for AWS services as a development and maintenance solution for its cloud platform. The agreement will remain indefinitely and includes 24/7 on-call services, infrastructure and architecture design of AWS environments, and implementation. "Thanks to Cybercom's comprehensive expertise in cloud platforms, we are able to focus more of our resources on developing new electronic services, which is our core business. Cybercom's experience and reliability as a provider of support services were instrumental factors in our decision," says Risto Koivula, CTO, MTV Corporation. MTV is a Finnish media company that provides news, entertainment and experiences 24 hours a day. Everyone in Finland is familiar with the MTV3, Sub and AVA TV channels. MTV Katsomo is an online TV service that enables viewers to watch programmes from MTV's channels. Subscription TV content is available from telecoms operators that sell the MTV Total, MTV Total Sport and C More packages. The online C More service also provides access to films and TV series. Mtv.fi serves consumers online. "The agreement with MTV is the latest chapter in the success story of our Passionate Support for AWS service. The functionality of Cybercom's long-term client strategy and collaboration based on partnership played a key role in the agreement struck with MTV. I am very pleased that our collaboration will expand to cover the AWS cloud environment," says Tapio Koivisto, Director Managed Services, Cybercom. Amazon Web Services is one of Cybercom's key cloud partners. Cybercom is an AWS Advanced Consulting Partner and an official retailer in the Nordic region in the public and private sectors. Further information Risto Koivula, CTO, MTV Corporation +358 40 543 3434 Tapio Koivisto, Director Managed Services, Cybercom Finland +358 40 542 8698 Kristina Cato, Head of IR- and Communications, Cybercom Group +46 708 644 702 About Cybercom Cybercom is an IT consultant that assists leading companies and organisations to benefit from the opportunities of the connected world. Each individual employee is a win for us. It is our employees who drive forward Cybercom’s development. Our consultants, and the solutions we create, take us all the way from public sector e- services in Sundsvall, Stockholm and Helsinki to operators and mobility in the Caribbean islands, via the UN Global Compact, driverless cars, national electronic identification, connected sewing machines and elevators. The company’s areas of expertise span the entire ecosystem of communications services and security. Cybercom’s domestic market is the Nordic region, and in addition the company offers global delivery capacity for local and international business. Cybercom was founded in 1995. Find out more at www.cybercom.com.
Kristian Johansen Sven Børre Larsen Q3 2016 Earnings Release CEO CFO 28 October 2016©2016 TGS-NOPEC Geophysical Company ASA. All rights reserved. All statements in this presentation other than statements of historical fact, are forward-looking statements, which are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict and are based upon assumptions as to future events that may not prove accurate. These factors include TGS’ reliance on a cyclical industry and principal customers, TGS’ ability to continue to expand markets for licensing of data, and TGS’ ability to acquire and process data products at costs commensurate with profitability. Actual results may differ materially from those expected or projected in the forward-looking statements. TGS undertakes no responsibility or obligation to update or alter forward- looking statements for any reason. Forward-Looking Statements 2©2016 TGS-NOPEC Geophysical Company ASA. All rights reserved.  Q3 net revenues of 113 MUSD compared to 169 MUSD in Q3 2015  Net late sales of 67 MUSD, down 26% from 90 MUSD in Q3 2015  Net pre-funding revenues of 39 MUSD were down 47% from Q3 2015, funding 58% of TGS’ operational multi-client investments for the quarter (68 MUSD)  Following a strong sequential improvement in market conditions from Q1 to Q2, fundamentals remained stable during Q3  Operating profit for the quarter was 11 MUSD compared to 46 MUSD in Q3 2015  Cash flow from operations was 91 MUSD compared to 121 MUSD in Q3 2015  Cash balance of 173 MUSD at 30 September 2016 in addition to undrawn 75 MUSD Revolving Credit Facility  Quarterly dividend maintained at USD 0.15 per share Q3 2016 Highlights 3©2016 TGS-NOPEC Geophysical Company ASA. All rights reserved. North West African Atlantic Margin NWAAM2017  Over 11,500 km of multi-client 2D seismic in partnership with PGS  Designed to infill, extend and complement the TGS NWAAM2012 2D survey which helped with recent commercial discoveries in the basin  A 12 km deep-tow streamer will enable the recording of high quality broadband 2D seismic data  Confirms TGS commitment to the leading frontier basin in Africa, where TGS already has over 28,000 km of 2D data and over 18,000 km2 of 3D data New Project Announced – North West Africa 4
PRESS RELEASE DATE: 2017-12-29 VITEC • www.vitecsoftware.com • info@vitec.se UMEÅ: TVISTEVÄGEN 47 A, 907 29 UMEÅ, SWEDEN. PHONE: +46 90-15 49 00 Page 1 (1) Increased number of shares and votes As previously announced on December 8, 2017 have the convertible bond program for Vitec employees with duration January 2015 - December 2017 been fully converted. With the conversion has the number of B-shares increased by 442 210 and the share capital increased by SEK 44,221. Total equity has increased by SEK 13,985,736. The total number of shares after conversion amounts to 29,838,900 of which 3,350,000 are A-shares. A-shares have 10 votes and B shares one vote. For more information, please contact Patrik Fransson, Investor Relations patrik.fransson@vitec.se +46-76-9428597 Disclaimer This information is of such a kind that Vitec Software Group AB (publ.) is legally required to disclose the Swedish Securities Market Act. The information was submitted for publication at 13:00 CET on Friday, December 29, 2017. About Vitec Vitec is market leader for Vertical Market Software in the Nordic region. We develop and deliver standard niche software. Vitec grows through acquisitions of well-managed and well-established software companies. The Group's overall processes together with the employees' in-depth knowledge of the customer's local market enables continuous improvement and innovation. Our 600 employees are based in Denmark, Finland, Norway and Sweden. Vitec is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm and had net sales of SEK 675 million in 2016. Find more at www.vitecsoftware.com.
PRESS RELEASE July 16, 2018 1 SenzaGen signs distribution agreement with the French test laboratory Eurosafe Lund, July 16, 2018. SenzaGen (Nasdaq First North: SENZA) and the French CRO Eurosafe announce today that they have entered into a distribution agreement regarding GARDskin™ and GARDpotency™. The GARD™ portfolio consists of animal-free tests developed by SenzaGen for safety assessment of chemical ingredients and mixtures. The agreement confirms the interest in SenzaGen’s technology and opens up new business opportunities on the important French market. Under the agreement, Eurosafe will market and sell GARDskin™ and GARDpotency™ to its clients. Eurosafe is a highly specialised contract research organization (CRO) with expertise in toxicology and regulatory services, and strives to present the best performing tests to its customers. Eurosafe carries out in vitro tests with focus on the cosmetics and pharmaceutical industries. According to the agreement, Eurosafe will market GARD™ animal free tests for skin sensitization to its large client base. GARD™ is a platform of animal free tests developed by SenzaGen for safety assessment of chemical ingredients and mixtures. The platform offers skin sensitization testing with an accuracy of 94% and the unique possibility to add potency classification according to regulatory requirements. At the same time, GARD™ eliminates the need for laboratory animals, as the tests are performed in test tubes (in vitro). “This agreement is important for us, as it opens up a very large market being the French cosmetics and pharmaceutical industry. We are very pleased to join efforts with a highly competent and renowned partner such as Eurosafe. Together, we have a clear vision of how GARD™ can contribute to the testing market”, says Anki Malmborg Hager, CEO of SenzaGen. “The demand from our customers in the cosmetic and pharmaceutical industry for high performing animal free tests is continuously increasing and we strive to offer the best and latest technologies. The GARD™ assay portfolio is unique with its holistic approach and contributes greatly in a modern testing strategy”, says Ashwani Sharma, General Manager of Eurosafe. For more information, please contact: Anki Malmborg Hager, CEO, SenzaGen AB Email: anki.malmborg.hager@senzagen.com Telephone: +46 768 284822 Ashwani Sharma, General Manager, Eurosafe Email: ashwani.sharma@eurosafe.fr Telephone: + 33 7 85 00 40 56 PRESS RELEASE July 16, 2018 2 About GARD™ GARD™ is a group of tests for assessing chemical skin sensitizers. The tests make use of genetic biomarkers for more than 200 genes which cover the entire immune reaction and are relevant to predicting the risk of hypersensitivity. The tests have over 90 percent reliability. This compares with the current predominant test method, experiments on mice, which has an accuracy of 70-­‐75 percent. SenzaGen's tests are also capable of measuring the potency of a substance's allergenic properties. Consequently, GARD tests provide a much more comprehensive basis for determining whether a substance should be classified as an allergen than current testing methods. About SenzaGen SenzaGen makes it possible to replace animal experiments with in vitro genetic testing to determine the allergenicity of the chemicals we come into contact with in our daily lives, such as for example in cosmetics, pharmaceuticals, food products and dyes. The company's patented tests are the most reliable on the market and provide more information than traditional evaluation methods. We ourselves sell the tests in Sweden and the USA, and we sell through partners in several other countries. Over the next few years the company will expand geographically, make alliances with more distribution partners and launch further unique tests. SenzaGen has its headquarters in Lund in Sweden and a subsidiary in San Francisco, USA. For more information visit www.senzagen.com About Eurosafe Eurosafe is a French based CRO. Over 30 years Eurosafe has served its customers all around the world for developing cosmetics and pharmaceuticals with 3 kinds of services : in vitro assays, tests on volunteers and regulatory toxicology. Our offering completed now with the GARDskin™ and GARDpotency™ together with our DPRA, H-­‐Clat and Sens-­‐Is assays makes Eurosafe unique in the EU with a complete set of standard and innovative sensitization assays. This information was submitted for publication, through the contact person set out above on July 16th 2018 at 08:50 SenzaGen AB is listed on Nasdaq First North in Stockholm and FNCA is the company’s Certified Adviser. For more information, please visit www.senzagen.com
ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB News Release, 2017-02-16 ExpreS2ion’s Chief Scientific Officer, Dr. Wian de Jongh, to Speak at ISBiotech 7th Spring Meeting in Washington D.C. – March 6-8 Horsholm, Denmark, February 16, 2017 – Today, ExpreS2ion Biotechnologies ApS (“ExpreS2ion”), a fully owned subsidiary of ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB, announces that its Chief Scientific Officer, Dr. Willem Adriaan (“Wian”) de Jongh, is speaking at the ISBiotech 7th Spring Meeting in Washington D.C., USA, on March 6th, 2017, presenting under the headline “Development of Malaria Sub-Unit Vaccines Using the Non-Viral Drosophila S2 Insect Cell Expression System”. Abstract Drosophila S2 insect cell expression is less known than the extensively used Spodoptera (Sf9/Sf21) or Trichoplusia ni (Hi-5) insect cell based baculovirus expression system (BEVS). Nevertheless, it has been used in research for almost 40 years. The cell line was derived from late stage Drosophila melanogaster (fruit fly) embryos by Schneider in the 1970s, who named the cell line Drosophila Schneider line 2 (synonyms: S2, SL2, D.mel. 2). The S2 expression system has been used for antigen manufacture up to and including Phase II clinical trials, and was used, among others, for production of Dengue antigens tested in a Phase I clinical trial by Merck Inc. ExpreS2ion has developed S2-based production processes for two malaria vaccine clinical trials with The Jenner Institute, Oxford University (Rh5, blood-stage malaria) and Copenhagen University (VAR2CSA, pregnancy-associated malaria). The pregnancy-associated malaria vaccine is currently in a Phase Ia trial in Germany, and will be followed by a Phase Ib trial in Benin. The blood-stage malaria vaccine has recently completed cGMP manufacture and the Phase I/IIa trial started in October 2016. Furthermore, transmission blocking malaria vaccine candidates (Pfs25, Pfs48/45, Pfs230C) are also under development. Antigen expression screening, process development, and GMP manufacture for these malaria programs will be discussed. For further information, please contact: ExpreS2ion Biotechnologies Telephone: +45 4256 6869 E-mail: info@expres2ionbio.com About ExpreS2ion ExpreS2ion Biotechnologies ApS, is a fully owned Danish subsidiary of ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB with company register number 559033-3729. The subsidiary has developed a unique platform technology, ExpreS2, enabling cost effective development and robust production of complex proteins for new vaccines and diagnostics for e.g. Malaria and Zika. Since founded in 2010, the company has used its patented ExpreS2 platform to produce more than 200 proteins in collaborations with research institutions and biopharmaceutical companies, with a superior efficiency and success rate.
Smart Eye AB, Första Långgatan 28B, 413 27 Gothenburg, Sweden Tel: + 46 31 60 61 60 Fax: +46 31 701 05 15 E-mail: info@smarteye.se Gothenburg, March 7, 2018 Press release Regulation for self‐driving cars expands the potential for Smart Eye’s technology Today, the results of the investigation on about, and how, existing regulation needs to be adapted to enable self‐driving vehicles, were presented. By introducing vehicles with a high degree of driver automation, traffic safety can be improved. One of the most important components that enables autonomous driving is the eyetracking technology developed by Smart Eye. The investigation is comprehensive and includes proposals for new law and new regulation on automated vehicles. The proposal makes Sweden one of the first countries where self‐driving cars of Level 3 and Level 4 could be sold and driven on public roads. The investigation proposes that the new legislation shall enter into force on 1 July 2019. In the fall of 2017 the first cars that are technically capable of self‐driving in accordance with SAE Level 3 were introduced on the market. They have not yet been able to activate their self‐driving features yet due to the fact that legislation and regulations have not yet been in place. The proposal now presented is an important milestone for car manufacturers on their way to roll out their autonomous platforms. "One of the key components to increase vehicle safety is an efficient and reliable driver monitoring system that ensures that the driver is alert, attentive and capable of fully maintaining the responsibility for the vehicle's performance. A prerequisite for such systems to work is the eyetracking technology that Smart Eye has developed since 1999. Today's announcement is highly anticipated and expands the potential of our technology”, says Martin Krantz, CEO of Smart Eye. By allowing a higher degree of autonomy for cars, that will contribute to the development of active road safety and improve the protection for drivers, passengers and other road users. Today, 90 percent of all car accidents are caused by human error. The investigation presented today is an important step towards saving lives and reducing the number of car accidents. The Director General of the Swedish Transport Agency, Jonas Bjelfvenstam, has led the investigation determining the regulatory changes needed to create legal prerequisites for introducing autonomous vehicles into traffic. The investigation was ordered by the government in November 2015. For more information Martin Krantz, CEO Smart Eye AB Phone: +46 70‐329 26 98 Email: martin.krantz@smarteye.se About Smart Eye Smart Eye was founded to bridge the gap between man and machine for a better tomorrow by developing ground breaking eye tracking technology that understands, assists and predicts human intentions and actions. Through combining deep, technical knowledge with playful creativity, Smart Eye consists of two business units. Its research instruments offer high performance in complex, real‐world situations, paving the way for new insights in aerospace, aviation, automotive, psychology, neuroscience, medical and clinical research. Business unit Applied Solutions are embedded in next generation vehicles, helping the automotive industry take another step towards autonomous vehicles. Founded in 1999, Smart Eye has offices in Gothenburg, Sweden and Michigan, USA as well as having partners, resellers and distributors in Europe, USA and APAC. Its solutions are used by more than 700 clients all over the world by leading research groups, brands and labs such as US Air Force, Nasa, BMW, Lockheed Martin, Audi, Boeing, Volvo, GM, and many more. http://smarteye.se/ Smart Eye is listed on First North. Erik Penser is Certified Adviser and can be reached at +46‐8‐463 8000.
Press release Malmö, September 29, 2017 On World Heart Day Latest Data Shows Heart Disease Remains Most Common Cause of Death in Sweden To Enable Better Targeting Of Resources, Skåne University Hospital Starts To Use New Acarix CADScor®System For Early Rule-Out Of Coronary Artery Disease (CAD) Today on World Heart Day, Cardiovascular disease (CVD), which includes heart disease and stroke, remains the world’s number one killer. Each year, it is responsible for 17.5 million premature deaths, and by 2030 this is expected to rise to 23 million. In Sweden too, although there has been a decrease in recent years, cardiovascular disease is still the most common cause of death. The latest figures from Statistik om dödsorsaker 2016 published on September 6, 2017 (Socialstyrelsen, Art.nr: 2017-9-10) show that almost 32,000 individuals (representing 35% of all deaths), at a rate of 306 cases per 100 000 inhabitants for men and 331 per 100 000 for women, died from their cardiovascular disease. Whilst this year’s World Heart Day theme focuses on prevention thus encouraging people to know their heart and live a healthier life, there is still recognition of a need for improved early detection and proper allocation of precious healthcare resources. One of the cardiovascular diseases, coronary artery disease (CAD) is one of the most common diseases in the western world. No easy to use method to detect CAD has hitherto been available. Hence, patients with suspected CAD are currently referred to special tests including stress tests e.g. exercise ECG that are time-consuming and they often do not produce sufficient information for an accurate diagnosis. A new device, Acarix CADScor®System is currently being introduced in healthcare as a frontline test to rule out CAD with high accuracy. The new test brings many benefits to both the patient and healthcare. If CAD can be ruled out this way, the patient does not have be exposed to the stress and risks involved with further tests and can leave the doctor’s office with peace of mind. Furthermore, healthcare resources will be used only for the patients who need further tests, potentially also reducing waiting times for these tests. Leading the way in Sweden is Skåne University Hospital in Lund. They have become the first user in the country of the Acarix CADScor®System. This easy to use device that resembles a stethoscope combines acoustic detection of turbulent arterial flow and myocardial movement with advanced algorithms to provide a highly accurate CAD-score for patients presenting with suspected symptoms in less than 10 minutes. This score helps to either immediately rule out CAD or refer the patient to further tests.Prof. David Erlinge, Professor in Cardiology at Lund University and Head of the Cardiology Department at Skåne University Hospital in Lund sees widespread benefits: ”As the latest figures show, dealing with Cardiovascular Disease remains a major priority for the Swedish healthcare system. In patients with suspected CAD, applying non-invasive methods should always be step one. Current non-invasive methods such as stress tests e.g. exercise ECG, are time-consuming and they often do not produce sufficient information for an accurate diagnosis. Thus, many patients are referred to further, invasive tests either confirming the suspicion of CAD or, in many cases demonstrating that their symptoms are unrelated to CAD. We therefore look forward to introducing this easy to use and non-invasive diagnostic device to rule out CAD with high accuracy for the benefit of both patients and healthcare. The aim is to ensure that only the patients that need to be referred to further, appropriate diagnostic tests get them and that patients with symptoms unrelated to CAD do not.” Acarix CEO Søren Rysholt Christiansen commented: “World Heart Day plays an important role in maintaining awareness of the devastation caused by heart disease to patients and their families and the need for the earliest possible confirmation of symptoms. We are very pleased with the roll-out of CADScor®System and we are confident that through his work with the CADScor®System at Skåne University Hospital in Lund, Prof. Erlinge and his team will make a real difference benefiting patients and society at large.” Contacts: Acarix Søren Rysholt Christiansen, CEO, E-mail: dksrc@acarix.com Phone: +45 2777 1112 Notes to editors: Acarix, CADScor®System and cardiac sound measurement Acarix was established in 2009, and since 2010 investors SEED Capital (DK) and Sunstone Life Science Ventures (DK) have supported it towards market introduction. Acarix was listed on Nasdaq First North Premier in 2016 and has attracted a highly-experienced management team having held senior positions in international medical device companies - CEO Søren Rysholt Christiansen with Cook Medical, GN ReSound, and ELOS Medtech. Acarix’s CADScor®System is based on engineering excellence in sound recording and signal processing. It has long been known that both cardiac contraction movement and turbulent flow can generate sound. Contraction related sounds are in lower frequency, whereas turbulent sounds in the streaming blood caused by partial obstruction (stenosis) in the coronary arteries are of higher frequencies. The detection of these murmurs is delicate, since the energy of the murmurs is very weak. Detecting and recording the coronary murmurs requires not only an advanced sensor but also means for proper attachment to the skin above the heart to optimize the recorded signal and to avoid external noise. The Acarix CADScor®System has been designed to be an all-in-one system in the sense that the heart signal will be recorded, processed, and displayed as a patient specific score, the CAD-score, on the device screen. The CADScor®System contains the necessary electronics to instruct professionals during use and to guide through the recording periods. The system also contains a docking station for daily qualification of the sensor. Further the system integrates with an adhesive patch for locking the sensor to a fixed position above the heart during the recording. See more at www.acarix.com. Press kit: http://www.acarix.com/about-us/press-downloads/.About World Heart Day World heart Day is organized by World Heart Federation, https://www.world-heart-federation.org/ Statement from website, https://www.worldheartday.org/ CVD is the world’s number one killer. Each year, it’s responsible for 17.5 million deaths, and by 2030 this is expected to rise to 23 million. But the good news is that much CVD can be prevented by making just a few simple daily changes, like eating and drinking more healthily, getting more exercise and stopping smoking. This World Heart Day, we’re asking you to share how you power your heart and inspire millions of people around the world to be heart healthy. So let’s make sure we all take action to keep our hearts charged and make a lasting difference to our health. Fuel your heart. Move your heart. Love your heart. And share the power.
PRESS RELEASE 31 July 2018 1 Scientific study shows that GARDskin™ is the most accurate test for skin sensitization of chemical substances Lund, 31 July 2018 – SenzaGen (Nasdaq First North: SENZA) announces today that a new scientific study shows that GARDskin™ can provide producers and contract laboratories with a single test for evaluating substances, with an increased accuracy as compared with the recommended combination of current market leading methods. The reason for this recommendation by regulatory authorities is the relatively low accuracy of the currently available individual methods. The positive results from the published study shows that GARDskin™ could be established as the first animal-free standalone test and thereby become a new global standard for toxicological evaluation of chemical substances. There are more and more countries banning animal testing of ingredients and final products within the cosmetics industry. Also other industries are facing a growing demand for accurate animal-free test methods. The primary forces driving this development are stricter regulatory demands and an urge to reduce the use of animals in experimental testing. A new scientific study confirms that SenzaGen´s test method GARDskin™ is more accurate than the other animal free methods (DPRA, KeratinoSens (ARE-Nrf2 luciferase) and h-CLAT) on the market today, for skin sensitization testing. Due to the relatively low accuracy of these methods, regulatory authorities recommend a combination of them, in order to better predict the skin sensitization activity of a substance. However, not even a combination of these tests show the same high level of accuracy as displayed by GARDskin™. ”This recently published scientific study shows that GARDskin™ can give producers and contract laboratories a possibility to use one single test to evaluate their substances with even better accuracy than a combination of several test methods. GARDskin™ has the potential to make testing of chemicals more efficient with respect to time, resources and quality”, says SenzaGen CEO Anki Malmborg Hager. The scientific study was carried out by Dr David W Roberts at the School of Pharmacy and Biomolecular Sciences, Liverpool John Moores University in the UK. The results are published in the scientific journal Regulatory Toxicology and Pharmacology and can be accessed via this link : “Is a combination of assays really needed for non-animal prediction of skin sensitization potential? Performance of the GARD™PRESS RELEASE 31 July 2018 2 (Genomic Allergen Rapid Detection) assay in comparison with OECD guideline assays alone and in combination” For more information: Anki Malmborg Hager, CEO, SenzaGen AB Email: anki.malmborg.hager@senzagen.com Phone: +46 768 284822 About GARD™ GARD™ is a group of tests for assessing chemical skin sensitizers. The tests make use of genetic biomarkers for more than 200 genes which cover the entire immune reaction and are relevant to predicting the risk of hypersensitivity. The tests have over 90 percent reliability. This compares with the current predominant test method, experiments on mice, which has an accuracy of 70-75 percent. SenzaGen’s tests are also capable of measuring the potency of a substance’s allergenic properties. Consequently, GARD tests provide a much more comprehensive basis for determining whether a substance should be classified as an allergen than current testing methods. About SenzaGen SenzaGen makes it possible to replace animal experiments with in vitro genetic testing to determine the allergenicity of the chemicals we come into contact with in our daily lives, such as for example in cosmetics, pharmaceuticals, food products and dyes. The company’s patented tests are the most reliable on the market and provide more information than traditional evaluation methods. We ourselves sell the tests in Sweden and the USA, and we sell through partners in several other countries. Over the next few years the company will expand geographically, make alliances with more distribution partners and launch further unique tests. SenzaGen has its headquarters in Lund in Sweden and a subsidiary in San Francisco, USA. For more information visit www.senzagen.com. The information was submitted for publication, through the contact person set out above on the 31 July 2018 at 08.50. SenzaGen AB is listed on Nasdaq First North in Stockholm and FNCA is the company’s Certified Adviser. For more information, please visit www.senzagen.com.
PRESS RELEASE Gothenburg, February 8th 2017 Smart Eye (publ) supplier to Volvo Cars’ Drive Me project Smart Eye is cooperating with NVIDIA to deliver logger camera systems to Volvo Cars Drive Me project. The system is cost efficient and the cameras so small they can easily be integrated seamlessly into the interior design. Drive Me is a project with 100 autonomous cars in Gothenburg managed by Volvo Cars. The cameras in the system are based on the lens-on-chip technology which means that lens and lens housing are built directly on the camera's image sensor. The technology has so far mainly been used in cell phones but research is ongoing to qualify it for the demanding automotive industry. The self-driving cars in the Drive Me project will be equipped with logger systems, with cameras of the new kind and cameras of the traditional design. The order comprises a platform which enables recording, real time compression and advanced in-car AI functionality such as eye tracking, with software from Smart Eye. NVIDIA DRIVE PX 2, an AI car computing platform, is coupled with Smart Eye’s software. “Volvo Cars is in the forefront in terms of self-driving cars and we are proud to have the chance to deliver this new and exciting technology to them. We look forward to our participation in the Volvo Drive Me project as it’s an important step on the road to fewer road accidents and road infrastructure safety”, says Martin Krantz, CEO of Smart Eye. “Our collaboration with SmartEye for Volvo Cars’ Drive Me project is key to an advanced in-car AI platform that will push the boundary of vehicle experience and safety,” said Rob Csongor, vice president and general manager of Automotive at NVIDIA. This information is information that Smart Eye AB (publ) is obliged to make public pursuant to the EU Market Abuse Regulation. The information was submitted for publication, through the agency of the contact person set out below, at February 8th 2017 kl 14:30 CET. For more information, please contact or visit http://corp.smarteye.se: Martin Krantz, CEO Tel: +46 70-329 26 98 Email: martin.krantz@smarteye.se About Smart Eye AB Smart Eye develops and markets systems for eye tracking, that is, system that can measure and calculate the exact location of what a person is looking at. The company currently has two business areas: Research Instruments and Applied Solutions. Research Instruments provides Smart Eye eye tracking- systems for advanced measurement and analysis of human behavior. Applied Solutions provides Smart Eye eye tracking software for integration into vehicles. Erik Penser is Certified Adviser and can be reached at 08-463 8000.
1 (1) Press release Östersund 2016-11-22 Correction notice of press release 22 Nov 2016 “The Board of Directors of Diös Fastigheter AB (publ) intends to convene an Extraordinary General Meeting to be held on 21 December 2016” The correction concerns the record date for participation in the rights issue. Correct record date for participating in the rights issue is Wednesday, 4 January 2017. The press release “The Board of Directors of Diös Fastigheter AB (publ) intends to convene an Extraordinary General Meeting to be held on 21 December 2016” was sent out 2016-11-22 at 08:10 a.m CET. For further information, please contact: Knut Rost, CEO: Phone: +46 10-470 95 01 E-mail: knut.rost@dios.se Rolf Larsson, CFO: Phone: +46 10-470 95 03 E-mail: rolf.larsson@dios.se This information is information that Diös Fastigheter AB (publ) is obliged to make public pursuant to the EU Market Abuse Regulation, the Swedish Securities Markets Act and/or the Swedish Financial Instruments Trading Act. The information was submitted for publication, through the agency of the contact persons set out above, at 05:00 p.m CET on 22 November 2016.
LUND DECEMBER 14, 2016 Page 1 of 3 P R E S S R E L E A S E Not for distribution, directly or indirectly, in or into, the United States, Australia, Hong Kong, Japan, Canada, South Africa, Singapore or New Zealand or any other country where the distribution of this press release would be unlawful. Precise Biometrics has completed a private placement of shares The board of directors of Precise Biometrics AB (publ) (“Precise Biometrics” or the “Company”) (Nasdaq Stockholm ticker: PREC) has, based on the authorization from the annual general meeting held on 17 May 2016, resolved to issue 14,925,373 new shares in Precise Biometrics through a private placement directed to a group of qualified Swedish and international investors (the “Private Placement”). The purpose of the Private Placement is to finance Precise Biometrics’ ongoing acquisition of NexID Biometrics while maintaining the Company’s current financial position. The Private Placement was announced on 13 December 2016 and received high investor interest. The subscription price for each new share was set to SEK 3.35 through a book-building procedure. Through the Private Placement, Precise Biometrics raises SEK 50 million before issue costs. Compared to the closing price on 13 December 2016, the price of the shares issued in the Private Placement meant a discount of 4.8 per cent. Compared to the closing price on 12 December 2016, the corresponding premium was 0.9 per cent. “There has been a great interest in participating in the private placement and the trust in our company is high. The private placement ensures that we can maintain our financial position, which gives us opportunities to continue to develop the company”, said Håkan Persson, CEO of Precise Biometrics. Through the Private Placement, the number of shares and votes in Precise Biometrics will be increased with 14,925,373 from 345,306,094 to 360,231,467. The share capital will increase by approximately SEK 447,761 to approximately SEK 10,806,944. The shares issued in the Private Placement correspond to approximately 4.1 per cent of the share capital and votes in Precise Biometrics following the Private Placement. Payment of the shares issued in the Private Placement shall occur no later than on 16 December 2016. Payment for the shares shall be made in cash. The Board of Directors of Precise Biometrics retains the right to extend the payment period at its discretion. Pareto Securities AB (”Pareto Securities”) acted as sole manager and bookrunner and Mannheimer Swartling Advokatbyrå as legal advisor in connection with the Private Placement. This information is information that Precise Biometrics AB is obliged to make public pursuant to the EU Market Abuse Regulation. The information was submitted for publication, through the agency of the contact person set out below, at 8.00 CET on 14 December 2016. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION, PLEASE CONTACT Håkan Persson, CEO, Precise Biometrics AB Phone; +46 46 31 11 05 or +46 734 35 11 05 E-mail; hakan.persson@precisebiometrics.comLUND DECEMBER 14, 2016 Page 2 of 3 P R E S S R E L E A S E ABOUT PRECISE BIOMETRICS Precise Biometrics is a market leading supplier of solutions for convenient and secure authentication of people’s identity. We develop and sell fingerprint software and mobile smart card readers that provide the market’s best user experience and security. Our solutions are used hundreds of millions of times every day by people all over the world and are marketed together with strong business partners. For more information, please visit; http://precisebiometrics.com IMPORTANT INFORMATION The information in this press release is not for release, publication or distribution, directly or indirectly, in or into the United States, Australia, New Zeeland, Hong Kong, Japan, Canada, Singapore or South Africa. The distribution of this press release in certain other jurisdictions may be restricted. The information in this press release shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to purchase any securities in Precise Biometrics in any jurisdiction. This press release does not constitute, or form part of, an offer or solicitation to purchase or subscribe for securities in the United States. The securities referred to herein may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an exemption from registration as provided in the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Precise Biometrics does not intend to register any portion of the offering of the securities in the United States or to conduct a public offering of the securities in the United States. Copies of this announcement are not being distributed or sent and may not be distributed or sent to the United States, Australia, New Zeeland, Hong Kong, Japan, Canada, Singapore or South Africa. Precise Biometrics has not resolved to offer to the public shares or rights in any Member State of the European Economic Area and no prospectus or other offer documentation has been prepared or will be prepared in connection with the Private Placement. Within such Member States of the European Economic Area which has implemented the Prospectus Directive (each, a “Relevant Member State”), no action has been undertaken as of this date to make an offer to the public of shares or rights requiring a publication of a prospectus in any Relevant Member State. As a result hereof, the shares or rights may only be offered in Relevant Member States: (a) to a qualified investor (as defined in the Prospectus Directive or under applicable law. For the purposes hereof, the expression an “offer to the public of shares or rights” in any Relevant Member State means the communication, in any form, of sufficient information on the terms of the offer and the shares or rights to be offered so as to enable an investor to decide to purchase any securities, as the same may be varied in a Relevant Member State due to the implementation of the Prospectus Directive in that Member State and the expression “Prospectus Directive” means Directive 2003/71/EC including any relevant implementing measure in each Relevant Member State. Pareto Securities is acting for Precise Biometrics and no one else in connection with the Private Placement and will not be responsible to anyone other than Precise Biometrics for providing the protections afforded to its clients or for providing advice in relation to the Private Placement and/or any other matter referred to in this announcement. Pareto Securities AB accepts no responsibility whatsoever and makes no representation or warranty, express or implied, for the contents of this announcement, including its accuracy, completeness or verification or for any other statement made or purported to be made by Pareto Securities AB, or on its behalf, in connection with Precise Biometrics and the NewLUND DECEMBER 14, 2016 Page 3 of 3 P R E S S R E L E A S E Shares or the Private Placement, and nothing in this announcement is, or shall be relied upon as, a promise or representation in this respect, whether as to the past or future. Pareto Securities AB accordingly disclaims to the fullest extent permitted by law all responsibility and liability whether relating to damages, contract or otherwise which it might otherwise have in respect of this announcement or any such statement. Any investors in the Private Placement will further be deemed to acknowledge (i) the information in this press release, (ii) that the investors are not relying (for purposes of making any investment decision or otherwise) upon any advice, counsel or representations (whether written or oral) of Precise Biometrics, Pareto Securities or any of their respective affiliates, and (iii) that they have consulted with their own legal, regulatory, tax, business, investment, financial, and accounting advisers to the extent they have deemed necessary, and they have made their own investment decisions based upon their own judgment and upon any advice from such advisers as they have deemed necessary. The company has not given, and the investors have not received from the company, any non-public information in connection with the Private Placement.
Press Release 2011-12-20 09:00 Vitec Software Group is a publicly traded software company that offers industry-specific business applications to specific industries. The company was founded in 1985 and had an annual turnover of SEK 316 million in 2010. Clients include property managers, real estate brokers, banks and insurance brokers, energy and media companies. Vitec is listed on Nasdaq OMX, Stockholm www.vitec.net Litgrid selects wind power forecasting system from Vitec Litgrid, which is the Lithuanian electricity transmission system operator managing electricity flows and maintaining stable operation of the national electricity system, has signed an agreement with Vitec for the use of Vitec wind power forecasting system, Aiolos Wind Power. The system will primarily be used to create short-term forecasts for wind power production for the whole of Lithuania. For energy companies with responsibility for balance and control of electricity, operators who sell or buy electricity produced by wind farms or individual turbines, detailed production forecasts for the coming hours and days are very important. For the last several years Vitec has developed advanced models which can transform meteorological forecasts to detailed wind forecasts in real time. - Production forecasts are an important part of our daily system operational work and we need constant, immediate and precise wind power forecasts. Aiolos wind power system matches all relevant criteria and we are confident that this system is the tool we were looking for to improve our forecasting capabilities, says Giedrius Radvila, Director of Power System Operations at Litgrid. - We are very excited that Litgrid has selected Aiolos Wind Power as the software support for their wind power forecasts. Wind energy sector in Baltics is developing, and therefore we are very pleased that we are well represented in the region with Aiolos. We are also strengthening our position among companies with system responsibility in the national grid, which is important for our ability to gain additional customers in this market, says Jerker Vallbo, CEO of Vitec Energy. Litgrid Litgrid is the electricity transmission system operator in Lithuania, whose main task is to manage electricity flows and maintain stable operation of the Lithuanian electricity system. Litgrid is also in charge of the integration and development of the electricity market of Lithuania as well as the operation and development of the electricity transmission grid – strategic projects of electricity interconnections with Sweden and Poland, which will ensure energy independence of Lithuania. Litgrid maintains about 125 000 km power lines. The Lithuanian national grid is part of the co-regulatory networks of the Baltic States, Russia and the synchronization is done with the European grid. Overall, Lithuania has 162 MW of wind power installed in transmission network. Vitec - Business Area Energy Vitec Business Area Energy develops, markets and sells IT-systems to utility companies. The systems include forecasting system for electricity and district heating load, wind forecasting, GIS & documentation system for electricity and district heating distributors. The business area turnover of approximately SEK 20 million / year and is part of Vitec Software Group AB (publ). For more information contact Jerker Vallbo, CEO Vitec Energy, Tel. +46 70 346 66 58 Vilija Railaitė, Head of Communications, Litgrid AB, Tel. +370 5278 2361
PRESS RELEASE P.O. Box 70376 Office address: Tel +46 (0)8 440 16 00 Organisation number 556528-2752 SE-107 24 Stockholm, Sweden Klarabergsviadukten 70 A5 Fax +46 (0)8 503 826 49 Registered office Stockholm, Sweden Göran Westerberg takes over supply-chain responsibility Bo Johansson, age 44, has decided to resign from the Nobia Group after four years in Group Management as head of supply chain. Chief Operations Officer Göran Westerberg will assume his areas of responsibility. Nobia AB 3 September 2009 For further information, contact: Preben Bager, President and CEO Ingrid Yllmark, IRO Phone +46 (0)8 440 16 00 or +46(0)708 65 59 00 Strong kitchen brands Magnet in the UK, HTH in the Nordic countries, Hygena in France and Poggenpohl globally are some of the kitchen brands in the Nobia Group. Nobia develops and sells complete kitchen solutions and generates value by utilising economies of scale. The Group has approximately 8,000 employees and net sales of about SEK 16 billion. The Nobia share is listed on NASDAQ OMX Nordic Exchange in Stockholm under the short name NOBI. For more information visit www.nobia.com. 65 30 65 -v 2
Press release NOT FOR RELEASE, PUBLICATION OR DISTRIBUTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART, DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY, IN THE UNITED STATES, AUSTRALIA, CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, HONG KONG, JAPAN OR ANY OTHER JURISDICTION WHERE SUCH RELEASE, PUBLICATION OR DISTRIBUTION WOULD BE UNLAWFUL OR WOULD REQUIRE REGISTRATION OR ANY OTHER MEASURES. Press release April 4, 2017 Isofol Medical announces the outcome of the Offering – trading on Nasdaq First North Premier commences today Isofol Medical AB (publ), a clinical stage pharmaceutical company, hereby announces that the offering of newly issued shares in the Company (the “Offering”) was substantially oversubscribed. The Offering attracted strong interest among Swedish and international investors. The listing on Nasdaq First North Premier has been successful and the trading commences today. Anders Rabbe, Managing Director, comments: “The large interest shown in becoming a shareholder in Isofol, both from investors in Sweden, Europe and in the US, is a strong signal that Isofol’s development of Modufolin® rests on a solid platform as well as offering a future commercial potential. We now welcome over 2,600 new shareholders, including some well-known institutions. Isofol is now fully financed until the registration of Modufolin® which is expected in 2021, and we can now continue to work towards initiating the pivotal trial of Modufolin®." Jan-Eric Österlund, Executive Chairman, comments: “We are pleased we have been able to finance our pivotal clinical trial in one step. We can now take Modufolin® all the way to registration and hope to be able to improve the life for hundreds of thousands of cancer patients every year. The strong support we have got from well-known life science investors and several international funds will also help us in future negotiations with partners in a potential licensing deal, as we prepare for the launch of Modufolin®.” The Offering in brief  The price in the Offering is, as has been previously communicated, SEK 29 per share, corresponding to a total value of the Company’s shares of SEK 487 million, before the Offering.  Circa 14,828,000 newly issued shares were sold in the Offering, corresponding to approximately 46.9 percent of the outstanding shares and votes after the Offering.  In addition, to cover any overallotment, the Company has committed, upon Pareto Securities’ request, to issue a maximum of an additional 1,482,800 new shares in the Company, corresponding to a maximum of 10 percent of the shares included in the Offering (the "Overallotment Option").  If the Overallotment Option is fully exercised, the Offering will comprise a maximum of 16,310,800 shares, corresponding to approximately 49.3 percent of the total number of shares in the Company after the Offering.  The new share issue will render proceeds of SEK 430–473 million to the Company before transaction costs, depending on the extent of the exercise of the Overallotment Option.  The total number of shares in the Company following the Offering amount to 31,604,500 if the Over- allotment Option is not exercised and 33,087,300 if the Over-allotment Option is exercised in full.  The new shareholders include both specialist and generalist institutional investors from Sweden and abroad, as well as investors among the general public in Sweden. These include a group of well-known institutions who have subscribed for a significant share of the Offering, such as Handelsbanken Fonder, AFA Försäkring, Rhenman & Partners, Swedbank Robur, Gustavia Fonder and Alfred Berg.  Trading in the Company’s shares on Nasdaq First North Premier commences today, April 4, 2017, under the ticker ISOFOL (ISIN code: SE0009581051).  Trading is conditional until the settlement day, which is expected to be April 6, 2017.Advisors Pareto Securities acted as Global Coordinator and Sole Bookrunner and Vinge was legal advisor in connection with the Offering. FNCA Sweden is Isofol’s Certified Advisor. Background to the Offering The primary purpose of the Offering is to fund the market registration study for Isofol’s drug candidate Modufolin®, which study will be conducted in first line treatment of patients with metastatic colorectal cancer. Given a successful study, Isofol expects to receive regulatory approval for Modufolin® within this indication. In addition, as part of Isofol’s development plan for Modufolin®, the Company is planning to conduct studies within rescue therapy following high-dose methotrexate treatment of osteosarcoma patients as well as other supporting studies aiming at benefitting Modufolin’s® route to market. Furthermore, the Board and management of Isofol believe that the Offering is a logical and important next step in the Company’s development and will further increase awareness among current and potential partners, customers and key opinion leaders within the pharmaceutical industry. The Offering will also expand Isofol’s shareholder base and improve the Company’s access to Swedish and international capital markets, which is expected to support the Company’s continued development. For these reasons, the Board has applied for a listing on Nasdaq First North Premier. Third most common cancer Colorectal cancer is the third most common cancer, affecting both men and women, and is the third leading cause of cancer-related death. Approximately 1.35 million people per year are diagnosed with the disease worldwide. In the US, Western Europe and Japan, where an estimated 550,000 patients are diagnosed with colorectal cancer, about 365,000 patients annually receive a treatment regimen including 5-FU and the folate leucovorin or levoleucovorin, which Isofol is aiming to replace with Modufolin®. About Isofol Medical AB (publ) Isofol is a clinical stage oncology company developing Modufolin® as a first-line treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer and as a rescue drug after high-dose methotrexate treatment in osteosarcoma. Isofol aims to replace the existing folate-based compounds leucovorin and levoleucovorin, which today are considered the standard treatment within these indications. Through an exclusive license agreement, Isofol Medical holds all rights to commercialising Modufolin® globally for cancer treatment with access to the unique patented production process and the production capabilities of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany. About Modufolin® Modufolin® (active ingredient [6R]-5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate), is a novel folate-based compound developed to increase the efficacy and reduce the side effects of antimetabolites used in cancer treatment. It is the key active metabolite of the widely used folate-based drugs leucovorin and levoleucovorin, and therefore does not require metabolic activation. This makes Modufolin® suitable for all patients irrespective of their genetical capacity to activate folates, and it is currently being evaluated in two clinical Phase II studies. For additional information, please contact: Anders Rabbe, Managing Director, Isofol Mob: +46 70 764 65 00 Email: anders.rabbe@isofolmedical.com Jan-Eric Österlund, Executive Chairman, Isofol Mob: +44 77 853 68 155 Email: jan-eric@osterlund.co.uk Important information This announcement is not and does not form a part of any offer for sale of securities. Copies of this announcement are not being made and may not be distributed or sent into the United States, Australia, Canada, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Japan or any other jurisdiction in which such distribution would be unlawful or would require registration or other measures. The securities referred to in this announcement have not been and will not be registered under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and accordingly may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act and in accordance with applicable U.S. state securities laws. TheCompany does not intend to register any offering in the United States or to conduct a public offering of securities in the United States. Any Offering of securities referred to in this announcement will only be made by means of a prospectus. This announcement is not a prospectus for the purposes of Directive 2003/71/EC (together with any applicable implementing measures in any Member State, the “Prospectus Directive”). Investors should not invest in any securities referred to in this announcement except on the basis of information contained in the aforementioned prospectus. In any EEA Member State, other than Sweden that has implemented the Prospectus Directive, this communication is only addressed to and is only directed at qualified investors in that Member State within the meaning of the Prospectus Directive, i.e., only to investors who can receive the offer without an approved prospectus in such EEA Member State. This communication is only being distributed to and is only directed at persons in the United Kingdom that are (i) investment professionals falling within Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005, as amended (the “Order”) or (ii) high net worth entities, and other persons to whom this announcement may lawfully be communicated, falling within Article 49(2)(a) to (d) of the Order (all such persons together being referred to as “Relevant Persons”). This communication must not be acted on or relied on by persons who are not Relevant Persons. Any investment or investment activity to which this communication relates is available only to Relevant Persons and will be engaged in only with Relevant Persons. Persons distributing this communication must satisfy themselves that it is lawful to do so. Matters discussed in this announcement may constitute forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical facts and may be identified by words such as “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “intends,” “estimate,” “will,” “may,” "continue," “should” and similar expressions. The forward-looking statements in this release are based upon various assumptions, many of which are based, in turn, upon further assumptions. Although the Company believes that these assumptions were reasonable when made, these assumptions are inherently subject to significant known and unknown risks, uncertainties, contingencies and other important factors which are difficult or impossible to predict and are beyond its control. Such risks, uncertainties, contingencies and other important factors could cause actual events to differ materially from the expectations expressed or implied in this release by such forward-looking statements. The information, opinions and forward-looking statements contained in this announcement speak only as at its date, and are subject to change without notice.
Press release Copenhagen, November 22, 2016 Acarix strengthens Board of Directors with senior medtech executives in preparation for IPO on Nasdaq First North Premier in Stockholm Acarix, a Swedish/Danish commercial stage medical device company specializing in non- invasive, non-radiation acoustic rule-out of Coronary Artery Disease (CAD), today announced the appointment of two highly experienced medical device industry executives, Dr. Werner Braun and Mr. Denis Gestin, in preparation for a listing of the company’s shares on Nasdaq First North Premier in Stockholm. The appointments also follow shortly after a major strategic investment from the Chinese company Puhua Jingxin Guzhou Health Management Partnership (Puhua Jingxin). Dr. Werner Braun is to take up the post of Chairman. Having received a PhD in plasma and laser physics from the Technical University in Munich for research work performed at the Max Planck Institute for Plasma Physics, Dr Braun was instrumental in turning BIOTRONIK into Europe’s largest privately-held medical device company in the cardiovascular arena. He is also Chairman of the board at Miracor Medical Systems GmbH. New board member, Mr. Denis M. Gestin has been the President of International Division at St. Jude Medical Inc. since January 2008 and brings in-depth knowledge of cardiac device development and marketing. CEO Søren Rysholt Christiansen commented: “We are delighted with the appointments of Dr. Braun and Mr. Gestin. Their in-depth knowledge of the cardiovascular device market will be invaluable as we head for the listing on Nasdaq First North Premier in Stockholm. The funds raised will be primarily be used to execute on our commercialization strategy and our anticipated launch in Q2 2017. “The CADScor®System combines acoustic detection of turbulent arterial flow and myocardial movement with advanced algorithms in a handheld device to provide a patient specific CAD-score in less than 10 minutes. According to Christiansen the CADScor®System meets a major unmet need: “Coronary Artery Disease affects more than 120 million people worldwide but the current diagnostic pathway, which can rapidly escalate to expensive and potentially harmful imaging and invasive coronary angiography, is inefficient. For example, a recent Danish study showed that more than 90% of patients presenting symptoms to their general practitioner do not have CAD. With the Acarix CADScor®System we have an easy to use non-invasive tool able to rule out CAD with 96% negative predictive value. This also translates into a potential to reduce onward patient referrals by ~50%. – a win-win for patients, payers and physicians.” Contacts: Acarix A/S: Søren Rysholt Christiansen, CEO, E-mail: dksrc@acarix.com Phone: +45 2777 1112 Notes to editors: Acarix , CADScor®System and cardiac sound measurement Acarix A/S was established in 2009 as a spin-out company from Coloplast A/S. Since 2010 key investors SEED Capital (DK) and Sunstone Life Science Ventures (DK) have financed the development of the company and supported it towards market introduction. While some founders remain in the company, Acarix has attracted a highly experienced management team who have held senior positions in international medical device companies - CEO Søren Rysholt Christiansen with ELOS Medtech, GN ReSound and Cook Medical. Acarix’s CADScor®System is based on pioneering research at Aalborg University. It has long been known that both cardiac contraction movement and turbulent flow can generate sound. Contraction related sounds are in lower frequency, whereas turbulent sounds in the streaming blood caused by partial obstruction (stenosis) in the coronary arteries are of higher frequencies. The detection of these murmurs is delicate, since the energy of the murmurs is very weak. Detecting and recording the coronary murmurs requires not only an advanced sensor but also means for proper attachment to the skin above the heart to optimize the recorded signal and to avoid external noise. The Acarix CADScor®System has been designed to be an all-in-one system in the sense that the heart signal will be recorded, processed and displayed as a patient specific score, the CAD-score, on the device screen.The CADScor®System contains the necessary electronics to instruct professionals during use and guide the patient through the recording periods. The system also contains a docking station for daily qualification of the sensor. Further the system integrates with an adhesive patch for locking the CADScor® sensor to a fixed position above the heart during the recording. The software embedded in The Acarix CADScor®System ensures that adequate recording conditions are controlled at every examination, whether performing your examinations in a quiet clinical settings or at busy GP clinics, at high altitudes (>95% coverage) or on the move. The CADScor®System is CE Marked (by TÜV in 2015) and due for commercial launch in 2017. See more at www.acarix.com
ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB Press Release, 2017-07-17 ExpreS2ion enters multi-product agreement with US-based Integrated BioTherapeutics for expansion of their commercial reagents portfolio Hørsholm, Denmark, July 17, 2017 – Today, ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB announces that the fully owned subsidiary ExpreS2ion Biotechnologies ApS (“ExpreS2ion”) has entered a Master Services Agreement and a Research & Commercial License Agreement with the US based Integrated BioTherapeutics, Inc. (“IBT”). The agreements enable standardised activation of a range of services and products from ExpreS2ion. This primarily targets the development and manufacturing of proteins based on the ExpreS2 platform, as well as granting IBT commercial rights to promote, sell and distribute such protein products made with ExpreS2. IBT expects to expand their unique research protein portfolio annually with up to five protein antigens manufactured in ExpreS2. ExpreS2ion and IBT do not disclose the financial terms of the agreements, which constitutes a part of both companies’ general business models, however, when the collaboration is fully implemented, ExpreS2ion expects to generate annual revenues of up to 1.0 million SEK as a result of these agreements. Master Services Agreement (MSA) and Research & Commercial License Agreement (RCLA) The MSA enables IBT to retain ExpreS2ion services and products for IBT research programs in a predefined and simple manner, according to the terms and conditions stipulated in the agreement. The agreement is made based on a common understanding by the parties that such services and products will be required. ExpreS2ion’s overall role will be development and manufacturing of selected protein antigens based on the efficient proprietary technology, ExpreS2. The RCLA grants IBT the research and commercial rights to develop and market proteins made with the ExpreS2 technology. The RCLA contains an annual Research License Fee as well as Royalty of Net Sales to be paid by IBT to ExpreS2ion for such license grant. The Royalty of Net Sales is a two-digit percentage. IBT expects to expand their unique research proteins franchise annually with up to five products developed with ExpreS2. ExpreS2ion and IBT do not disclose the financial terms of the Agreements, which constitutes a part of both companies’ general business models, however, when the collaboration is fully implemented, ExpreS2ion expects to generate annual revenues of up to 1.0 million SEK as a result of these agreements. Integrated Biotherapeutics, Inc. Integrated BioTherapeutics, Inc. (“IBT”) is a biotechnology company focused on the discovery of novel vaccines and therapeutics for emerging infectious diseases. IBT's pipeline includes promising product candidates for bacterial and viral infections. IBT's antiviral pipeline includes unique pan-filovirus antibody candidates, vaccines and a variety of other product candidates for emerging viruses, such as Zika, Ebola, dengue, Marburg, and others. IBT is located in Rockville, Maryland, USA, and has a close working relationship with United States Government agencies including the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID/NIH), National Cancer Institute (NCI), United States Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases (USAMRIID), and many biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies and academic laboratories. IBT’s service and reagent division doing business as IBT Bioservices (www.ibtbioservices.com) produces and markets high quality recombinant proteins and antibodies primarily for infectious disease research. CEO Dr. Steen Klysner comments “I am pleased that we have established our first broad commercial agreement in reagent supply with IBT, which has direct sales and distribution to the market for high quality proteins used in research. This expands our near-term revenue business model and demonstrates the value of the ExpreS2 platform in this and related commercial segments. We look forward to this mutually beneficial collaboration with IBT and continued work in the future.”ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB Press Release, 2017-07-17 Certified Adviser Sedermera Fondkommission is appointed as Certified Adviser for ExpreS2ion. For further information about ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB, please contact: Dr. Steen Klysner, CEO Telephone: +45 2062 9908 E-mail: sk@expres2ionbio.com This press release contains information that ExpreS2ion is obligated to make public pursuant to the EU Market Abuse Regulation. The information was submitted for publication through the agency of the contact person set out above on July 17, 2017. About ExpreS2ion ExpreS2ion Biotechnologies ApS, is a fully owned Danish subsidiary of ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB with company register number 559033-3729. The subsidiary has developed a unique platform technology, ExpreS2, enabling cost effective development and robust production of complex proteins for new vaccines and diagnostics for e.g. Malaria and Zika. Since founded in 2010, the company has used its patented ExpreS2 platform to produce more than 200 proteins in collaborations with research institutions and biopharmaceutical companies, with a superior efficiency and success rate.
LUND, OCTOBER 26, 2017 Page 1 of 1 P R E S S R E L E A S E Precise Biometrics revises full-year 2017 revenue and operating results guidance Due to the strong competitive situation for Precise Biometrics´ customers, sales have not increased in line with the company´s previous projections. Therefore, Precise Biometrics revises its revenue guidance for the full-year 2017 from previous guidance of around SEK 83 million to revenues in the range of SEK 60- 70 million. Due to the weaker sales development, the company will show an operating loss, which deviates from the previous guidance that the full-year 2017 would result in an operating profit. Preliminary royalty reports from Precise Biometrics customers shows that royalty revenues in the third quarter of 2017 have not increase according to the company´s previous projections. Due to the strong competitive situation in the capacitive sensor market, which is dominated by a few major sensor manufacturers, the company's customers have won fewer projects and been assigned lower volumes than projected. Royalty revenues in the fourth quarter of 2017 will also be lower than previously projected due to the current sales development. Royalty is reported by the company's customers after the end of the quarter and is difficult to predict as the royalty is based on actual sensor deliveries to smartphone manufacturers. Information related to the third quarter of 2017 will be presented in Precise Biometrics interim report for January-September 2017, which will be published on November 14th. This information is information that Precise Biometrics AB is obliged to make public pursuant to the EU Market Abuse Regulation. The information was submitted for publication, through the agency of the contact person set out below, at 19.00 CEST on October 26, 2017. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION, PLEASE CONTACT Håkan Persson, CEO, Precise Biometrics AB Telefon; +46 46 31 11 05 or +46 734 35 11 05 E-mail; hakan.persson@precisebiometrics.com ABOUT PRECISE BIOMETRICS Precise Biometrics is a market leading supplier of solutions for convenient and secure authentication of people’s identity. We develop and sell fingerprint software and mobile smart card readers that provide the market’s best user experience and security. Our solutions are used hundreds of millions of times every day by people all over the world and are marketed together with strong business partners. For more information, please visit; http://precisebiometrics.com Follow us on LinkedIn and Twitter.
TGS 2D Seismic Alonso 3D Acquisition Area TGS 3D Seismic Surveys Service Layer Credits: Content may not reflect National Geographic's current map policy. Sources: National Geographic, Esri, DeLorme, HERE,
Air conditioning Residential and Light Commercial Split, Multi and VRF systemsSystemair Trust We consider your trust in us as a supplier an important goal. It is always included in our work on all levels and in all areas whether it is a question of cooperation, quality, deliveries or documentation. This catalogue is of course a part of this work. With this catalogue, which features products of air conditioning, we want to give you as a customer a general overview of what Systemair can offer within this field. More detailed information is available in our Online catalogue at www.systemair.com and as downloadable software. Systemair’s range of fans, air distribution products and accessories also appears in our printed main catalogue. Our product development leads the field - latest technologies in unitdesign, fans, motors, heat recovery, chillers, fan coils,... interact to give high efficiency and with that low power consumption. Systemair has grown each year since the start and we aim to continue with this trend. Systemair strives to be a reliable supplier of quality products. We help our customers to focus on their own business. Reliable deliveres give the customers greater possibilities to quickly complete a job, and move on to the next project. At Systemair we call this Trust. © Systemair 2013. Systemair reserves the right to make technical changes. For updated documentation, please refer to www.systemair.comContent | 3 Content Systemair 4 Product Range 6 Application 8 SPLIT systems 10 Wall-mounted series 14 Multi systems 20 Light-commercial series 32 VRF systems 40 Outdoor units 44 Indoor units 60 Ventilation application 80 Controls and accessories 844 | Systemair Skinnskatteberg, Sweden: Systemair AB, the Systemair group head offi ce is in Skinnskatteberg, Sweden. The production is virtually fully automated with modern machinery featuring advanced computer support. Also located here is the company’s most advanced test installation for measuring technical data. Klockgården, Sweden: Systemair’s small air handling units are manufactured at Klockgården in Skinnskatteberg. Frico’s central warehouse of approximately 8000 m2 is also located here. Windischbuch, Germany: Production facility for fans and modular air handling units, specialized on engineered products (e.g. tunnel and jet fans). Distribution center. Langenfeld, Germany: Production of air curtains. Hässleholm, Sweden: VEAB is the leading European manufacturer of electric duct heaters. Production of heating and cooling coils, electric and water based. Ukmerge, Lithuania: Production of smaller air handling units with energy recovery systems. Maribor, Slovenia: Specialized in centrifugal smoke extract fans, EN certifi ed. Hasselager, Denmark: Production of modular air handling units. Dal Eidsvoll, Norway: Production of air handling units. Systemair worldwide
NEW PROPULSOR FOR COMMERCIAL AND MILITARY VESSELS COMBINING INBOARD RELIABILITY WITH OUTBOARD FLEXIBILITY Durability and safety are essential factors especially for commercial and military vessels. Unfortunately most of the propusion systems for smaller crast s are initially designed for pleasure crast . There is a demand for reliability, the ability to use marinized automotive based diesel engines, fi re safety and cabin heat. That spare parts are easy to come by are also of great importance. Combining the inboard reliability with the outboard fl exibility and marrying them to a Diesel propulsor has been the goal and Holy Grail of the marine industry for decades. Cimco Marine Diesel AB has now developed a unit that eff ectively achieves this! It also meets or exceeds the: • NATO Single Fuel Directive • Latest stringent emission standards • Endurance demands on the commercial market • Shock absorption capacity of the SOLAS market THE NATO SINGLE FUEL DIRECTIVE Most recently there is the requirement for governmental agencies to comply with the NATO single fuel directives in order to meet environmental demands that will become eff ective in 2015 and 2016 (IMO). The combination of range, refueling procedures, crew safety and the geographical availability of diesel are all specifi cations required to be considered by the US Military, NATO and its allies into 2015. These specifi cations have however always been diffi cult to meet. Cimco’s OXE propulsor will be the only “outboard” on the market to meet this requirement. OUTBOARD BENEFITS The fl exibility, replaceability and maneuverability are ost en arguments that favor using an outboard propulsion system. Some of the most important advantages to outboard power are the fact that outboards can be tilted up to run in very shallow water and to keep out of water when at rest. The outboard solutions also deliver a benefi cial power-to-weigh ratio and are mounted outside the hull, which signifi cantly reduces the risk for water intrusion, Also when moored the engines can be trimmed out of the water which signifi cantly reduces corrosion. Furthermore the outboard units can easily, and in a timely manner be replaced with a complete new unit, which gives the hull more time on water as power unit repairs can be performed elsewhere.SERVICE FRIENDLY FOR ONBOARD CREW Easily accessible service points and service friendly units are still key for the onboard crew on commercial and governmental products. Distance to supplier’s accessibility could be vast on the water and ability to repair units in a timely manner is critical. Due to these critical environments any failure could be disastrous as currents and waves will take control when propulsion systems fail. Therefore products for governmental customers should be serviceable and allow for easy service and repair even in the most critical and the direst situations. BELT PROPULSOR UNITS, “BPU” The Belt propulsor unit eliminates bevel gears and transfer shast s that are the weak links by utilizing latest belt technology. It allows for increased torque transfer to the propeller. It also allows for smaller torpedoes and slimmer submerged module. This provides less drag and thereby reduces fuel consumption and increases speed in comparable gear driven units. From a safety aspect it is desirable that units allow for low engaging speed as well as being capable of crash stops, which signifi cantly increases crew safety but further escalates the demand on the drive train. SELF-CONTAINED BELT PROPULSOR UNIT (S-BPU) Self-containing units further reduce the down time and increase time on the water for the boat as they are easy to replace. This allows for services to be performed on land allowing the vessel to continue running on the water with a replaced unit. Finding ways to replace units in short time is important from this aspect. It is also valuable to reduce the demand for cranes and other equipment required to remove the units from or through the hull. The outboards have a huge advantage compared to inboard solutions from this aspect. WHY IS AN S-BPU NOT A REGULAR OUTBOARD An S-BPU is located on the transom of the vessel and it has a trim tilt system like most outboards do. This is where the commonalities end. An S-BPU is a modular platform that has a horizontal engine confi guration in contrast to vertical engine installations. The patented belt feature allows for fully scalable torque transfer capability without aff ecting the hydrodynamics. Using BPU technology makes it fully possible to build a very high powered S-BPU for high-speed crast s. The BPU is a new segment in the marine propulsion industry and not comparable to anything on the market today. THE OXE DIESEL S-BPU The OXE Diesel is the fi rst self-contained belt propulsor unit on the market. It has been designed to combine or exceed the benefi ts of the inboard stern drive solution with the benefi ts from the outboard solution. By using modular design the OXE has been built up with proven conventional technology but instead of utilizing bevel gears the whole system has been designed as a self-contained belt propulsor unit. The key concept in the design phase has been to create a reliable, enduring product that run on diesel to comply with NATO single fuel policy and the environmental demands that the market has stipulated. The power head is a GM, L4, 2.0-liter turbocharged automotive diesel engine that has been marinized with closed circuit coolant system inspired by modern inboard technology. This provides the unit with a well-proven engine that has been carefully tested over time with reliable technology. The power-head has been redesigned to arrange all service point in front of the unit so that maintenance and service can be performed on the water. It has been fi tted with a dry sump system to allow for rolling in heavy seas, tilting and trimming. The power unit has been mounted on the adaptor plate with four heavy-duty bushings to allow the unit to endure punishing commercial use.CHANGE OF THE GEAR RATIO The power from the engine is transferred to the separate stand-alone gearbox via a primary belt system. The primary belt has been designed as the system fuse and adapter. It allows the user to change the gear ratio of the unit to fi t various demands and driving styles. By changing the pulleys in the primary belt transition the users can change the gear ratios from 1.3 to 1.47 and 1.66. MULTI-PLATE-CLUTCH FOR CRASH STOPS The gearbox, mounted separately under the engine is an electro- hydraulically operated system with two multi- plate-clutch packages that allows for high torque and power transfer and smooth seamless shist ing between neutral, forward and reverse. It has been designed to withstand crash stops and clockwise and counter clockwise rotation so that the unit can replace right and lest mounted units. The use of a hydraulic multi plate clutch further provides the unit with low-speed capacity through controlled clutch slippage. This eff ectively allows the unit to seamlessly run from 1 rpm to the end of the rev range. By avoiding minimal running speed units can be used on most platforms and be given search and rescue or patrolling missions where low speed capacity is key as well as interception and transport missions where high speed is required. OXE DIESEL S-BPU CUSTOMER BENEFITS Using BPU technology signifi cantly reduces drag as it allows more slender design on the submerged modules. Also the technology reduces complexity and increases serviceability. All modules are separately serviceable and none of the service parts of the OXE Diesel S-BPU are submerged. The BPU technology contributes to that all shast s are horizontal. Engine, gearbox and propeller shast are horizontal which reduces the unit vibrations. The OXE design incorporates: • Reduced drag • Increased serviceability • Less vibrations • Compliance with SOLAS demands • Rigid construction • Reduced fuel consumption The OXE Diesel S-BPU has been designed to comply with SOLAS demands. The rigid construction withstands great forces and is optimized for commercial use. It allows for long service hours and signifi cantly reduces the fuel consumption compared with other propulsion system due to its slender submerged modules. It is easily reconfi gured to fi t the platform it is mounted on due to the changeable gear ratio and the hydraulic gearbox that allows for clockwise and counter clockwise rotation. www.oxe-diesel.com CIMCO MARINE DIESEL AB info@oxe-diesel.com Metallgatan 19a Engelholm, SE-262 72 Sweden
Cybercom Group AB Box 7574, 103 93 Stockholm, Sweden +46 8 578 646 00 To the editor 12 June 2017 Entertaining Gaming Cage opens to the public ahead of DreamHack In the days leading up to DreamHack – the world’s biggest digital festival – a gaming cage will be placed on a square in Jönköping, Hovrättstorget, to be filled with gamers, interesting guests and personalities who will play, discuss and talk gaming and e-sports around the clock. Come join the fun, 15–17 June! “We are inviting everyone to come and experience gaming, fascinating talks and guests,” says Kim Vindemarker of Cybercom, project manager for the Gaming Cage. “The people we have asked to join us include world-famous gamers, members of parliament, game development companies and an e-sports team recently contracted by J-Södra, a team in the Allsvenskan football league.” Kim and her colleagues at Cybercom came up with the idea of a public gaming cage toCybercom Group AB Box 7574, 103 93 Stockholm, Sweden +46 8 578 646 00 generate interest in the social development and technical progress that the DreamHack digital festival promotes. In partnership with Destination Jönköping and DreamHack, a gaming cage will now be set up for the first time on Hovrättstorget in the city centre. “Our future depends on young people choosing technical education. We already have a skills shortage in IT and we know that by 2020 we are going to need more than 60,000 IT professionals in Sweden alone. Cybercom is working constantly to spark young people’s interest in technology, including through partnerships with Hello World! and Universeum. The Gaming Cage is yet another initiative to put the spotlight on programming and IT. We also want to make a concrete contribution to Jönköping’s development and to the city and DreamHack helping each other to succeed,” says Patrik Lägermo, manager of Cybercom’s operations in Jönköping. The Gaming Cage will be officially opened on 15 June at 18:00 by Patrik Lägermo of Cybercom, Patrik Olderius of Destination Jönköping and Tomas Lyckedal of DreamHack. Everything will be streamed live on Twitch around the clock and transmitted to big screens and speakers outside. The programme offers world-class gamers, as well as well-known guests whose interest in gaming might come as a surprise. Local personalities will be invited in for interviews and demonstrations, along with entertaining elements like a local celebrity battle in VR gaming. More info is available online at www.gamingburen.se “We are heating up Jönköping ahead of DreamHack, which starts Saturday, 17 June at 16:00,” says Kim, who usually works with technology for self-driving cars. She will be in the Gaming Cage 15-17 June along with colleagues from Cybercom. “We want to see Jönköping grow and are convinced that DreamHack is going to bring many talented prospective employees of companies in the region,” says Kim Vindemarker. DreamHack has been arranging digital festivals at Elmia in Jönköping since 2001 and is now the biggest digital festival on the planet, attracting visitors from all over the world. The development of the festival has been extraordinary, with several attendance records, streaming records and constant evolution of festival activities. Read more online at https://dreamhack.com/ For further information, please contact: Patrik Lägermo, Manager, Cybercom Jönköping +46 708 779 696 Kim Vindemarker, Project Manager, The Gaming Cage +46 702 643 795 Kristina Cato, Sustainability Accelerator and Head of Communications +46 708 644 702 About Cybercom Cybercom is an innovative IT consulting firm that enables leading companies and organisations to benefit from the opportunities of the connected world. Our consultants and the solutions they create take us all the way from e-services in the Nordic public sector to mobility in the Caribbean islands, streaming media and autonomous cars in Europe, national e-IDs, secure card payments, as well as health apps for the care sector, connected cranes and elevators and intelligent industrial robots. Cybercom was founded in 1995. Today, the company’s areas of expertise span the entire ecosystem of communication services and IT security. We are a highly diverse company, with a large age range and 45 nationalities. We are creating the world of tomorrow in unison, we are creative, fearless and inquisitive – always ready to challenge the status quo. We turn our words into action and empower change. We are the #Makers of tomorrow. Cybercom has been a privately owned company since 2015. Its main shareholders are JCE Group AB and Tequity AB. Cybercom’s domestic markets are the Nordic region and Poland, and in addition the company offers global delivery capacity for local and international business. www.cybercom.com
Pressrelease 19 februari 2018 Systemair Nomination Committee At the annual meeting on 24 August 2017 it was decided that the Nomination Committee should contain representatives for the three largest shareholders or shareholder groups in terms of votes, according to Euroclear Sweden AB's printout of the share register on 31 January 2018. We hereby announce that, after consultations with the company's three largest owners, a Nomination Committee has been appointed, containing the following:  Gerald Engström (Chairman), Färna Invest AB  Gerhard Sturm, ebm-papst AB  Lennart Francke, Swedbank Robur Fonder Shareholders who wish to contact the Nomination Committee are invited to send an e-mail to Anders Ulff, CFO, Systemair AB, anders.ulff@systemair.se. The annual meeting will be held on 30 August 2018, at 15.00 (CET) in Skinnskatteberg, Sweden. For further information contact: Gerald Engström, Chairman of the Board, +46 222 440 01, + 46 70 519 00 01 Roland Kasper, CEO, +46 222 440 13, +46 73 94 40 13 Anders Ulff, CFO, +46 222 440 09, +46 70 577 40 09 Systemair AB, SE-739 30 Skinnskatteberg, Sweden, +46 222 440 00, www.systemair.com Note: The information here is that which Systemair AB has willingly chosen to make public or that which it is obliged to make public according to the Swedish Securities Market Act and/or the Financial Instruments Trading Act. The information was published at 13:00 (CET) on 19 February 2018. Systemair in brief Systemair is a leading ventilation company with operations in 50 countries in Europe, North- and South America, the Middle East, Asia and Africa. The Company had sales of SEK 6.9 billion in financial year 2016/17 and currently employs about 5,200 people. Systemair has reported an operating profit every year since 1974, when the Company was founded. During the past 15 years, the Company's growth rate has averaged about 10 percent. Systemair has well-established operations in growth markets. The Group's products are marketed under the Systemair, Frico, Fantech and Menerga brands. Systemair shares have been quoted on the Mid Cap List of the OMX Nordic Exchange in Stockholm since October 2007. The Group comprises about 70 companies.
Press release 2018-01-31 HUAQING POWER TECHNOLOGY DELAYS FIRST DELIVERY OF COATING MACHINES  Delivery of the first two coating machines to Chinese company Huaqing Power Technology is pushed forward from Q1 2018 to later in the year  Huaqing is not ready with other portions of the production line  The delay does not affect profit or revenues for 2017  Revenue of SEK 15.2M will be recognized for the machines during 2017 accord- ing to plan  The 2017 balance sheet will show a corresponding entry of SEK 15.2M under ac- crued revenue  There is a negative liquidity effect during Q4 2017 of SEK 7.8M due to outstand- ing prepayment invoices  Impact Coatings’ liquidity remains good Impact Coatings, which develops and sells world-leading technology for PVD-coatings of fuel cell plates and vehicle reflectors, signed during autumn 2017 an agreement with the Chinese fuel cell producer Huaqing Power Technology for delivery of six coating machines during 2018 and 2019. Impact Coatings has now been informed by Huaqing that the delivery plan for the first two coating machines is delayed. The reason is that other portions of the production line for fuel cells are not yet ready. ”The first coating machine that, according to the forecast, should have been delivered during January, is complete and ready for delivery while the second machine will be complete during March. Huaqing is not able to accept delivery of the machines until the production issues for the relevant production line are resolved. The updated forecast is for delivery later during 2018,” said Impact Coatings CEO Henrik Ljungcrantz. The delay does not affect profit or revenues for 2017. Revenue of SEK 15.2M will be recog- nized for the machines during 2017 according to plan. The 2017 balance sheet will show a corresponding entry of SEK 15.2M under accrued revenue. There is a negative liquidity effect during Q4 2017 of SEK 7.8M due to outstanding prepay- ment invoices. Impact Coatings’ liquidity remains strong, however. The prepayment invoices will be paid when the production line is complete. The coating machines in question are under Impact Coatings’ ownership until they are deliv- ered and paid for in full. The machines can therefore be sold and delivered to other custom- ers on short notice should further delays materialize.Impact Coatings AB, Westmansgatan 29, SE-582 16 Linköping, Sweden Phone: +46 13 35 99 50, e-mail: info@impactcoatings.se, web: www.impactcoatings.com The agreement with Huaqing is for delivery of six coating machines - InlineCoater™- during 2018 and 2019. Production and delivery of the machines occurs in three phases of two ma- chines each. It is the first delivery that is now delayed. Huaqing confirms that the delay is not due to lack of financing but exclusively related to other components in the production line not being completely ready. For more information, contact: Henrik Ljungcrantz, CEO Tel: +46 70-663 55 80 or e-mail: henrik.ljungcrantz@impactcoatings.se Impact Coatings AB (publ) is required to disclose this information in accordance with EU mar- ket abuse regulations. The information was delivered, via the contact person named above, for publication on 31 January 2018, 18:00 CET. About Impact Coatings Impact Coatings delivers world-leading technology for PVD-coatings of fuel cell plates and vehicle reflectors. PVD is a method of, under vacuum, producing thin layers of metals and ce- ramics – surface coatings that maximize performance and durability. Impact Coatings’ pa- tented technology, for example, increases the efficiency of fuel cells 25-30 percent compared to other solutions. The company is strategically present in the international market for hydro- gen-fueled vehicles, which is approaching a significant breakthrough. The company’s shares trade since 2004 on the Nasdaq First North exchange (Nasdaq OMX Nordic). The company’s Certified Adviser is Remium Nordic Holding AB.
TGS | EARNINGS RELEASE 7 FEBRUARY 2013 TGS EARNINGS RELEASE 4th QUARTER RESULTS 4th QUARTER HIGHLIGHTS • Consolidated net revenues were USD 281.4 million, an increase of 56% compared to Q4 2011. • Net late sales totaled USD 203.7 million, up 39% from Q4 2011. • Net pre-funding revenues were USD 65.0 million, up 115% from Q4 2011, funding 68% of the Company’s operational multi- client investments during Q4 (investments of USD 95.3 million, up 56% from Q4 2011). • Proprietary revenues were USD 12.7 million, compared to USD 4.5 million in Q4 2011. • Operating profit (EBIT) was USD 117.9 million (42% of net revenues), compared to USD 62.7 million (35% of net revenues) in Q4 2011. • Cash flow from operations was USD 243.4 million, up from USD 189.4 million in Q4 2011. • Earnings per share (fully diluted) were USD 0.81, compared to USD 0.43 in Q4 2011. FULL YEAR 2012 FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS • Consolidated net revenues were USD 932.2 million, an increase of 53% compared to 2011. • Net late sales from the multi-client library totaled USD 563.8 million, up 34% from USD 419.5 million in 2011. • Net pre-funding revenues were USD 338.2 million, up 129% from 2011, funding 68% of the Company’s operational multi-client investments during 2012 (investments of USD 496.2 million, up 79% from 2011). • Proprietary revenues were USD 30.3 million, compared to 41.7 million in 2011. • Operating profit (EBIT) was USD 402.3 million (43% of net revenues), compared to USD 240.4 million (40% of net revenues) in 2011. • Cash flow from operations was USD 663.4 million, an increase of 36% from USD 486.7 million in 2011. • Earnings per share (fully diluted) were USD 2.76 compared to USD 1.65 for the same period in 2011. “As announced at our 2013 guidance release on 8 January 2013, Q4 2012 was another record breaking quarter for TGS. We are particularly pleased to see that our existing library continues to perform well with late sales up 39% from Q4 2011,” TGS’ CEO Robert Hobbs stated. “Our pipeline of new investment opportunities continues to be strong in both traditional as well as new multi- client markets for TGS. The 2013 guidance therefore reflects a strong seismic market providing good opportunities for profitable growth.”KEY FIGURES (All amounts in USD 1,000s) Q4 2012 Q4 2011 YTD 2012 YTD 2011 Net operating revenues 281,390 180,891 932,239 608,568 EBIT 117,871 62,664 402,304 240,402 Pre-tax profit 123,106 62,357 407,550 241,146 Net income 83,913 44,213 284,533 170,688 EBIT margin 42% 35% 43% 40% Return on capital employed 36% 25% 36% 25% Equity ratio 69% 73% 69% 73% MC library opening net book value 671,241 523,664 511,131 475,698 Investments in new projects 95,345 61,134 496,240 276,942 MC data purchased from third parties* 3,461 - 31,100 - Amortization (118,882) (73,667) (387,305) (241,509) MC library ending net book value 651,165 511,131 651,165 511,131 Pre-funding % on operational investments 68% 50% 68% 53% *The PPA of the Arcis transaction was finalized in Q4 and has resulted in a slight increase to the multi-client data purchased from third parties REVENUE BREAKDOWN Multi‐client Seismic 90% Propr. 5%GPS 5% TGS’ largest business activity is developing, managing, conducting and selling multi-client seismic surveys. This activity accounted for 90% of the Company’s business during the quarter. Geological Products and Services (GPS) accounted for 5% of net revenues in the 4th quarter, while proprietary seismic revenues accounted for 5% of net revenues. Net late sales were up 39% compared to Q4 2011. Net pre-funding revenues totaled USD 65.0 million, an increase of 115% from Q4 2011. The pre-funding revenues recognized in the fourth quarter funded 68% of the operational investments of USD 95.3 million in the multi- client library. For the full year, pre-funding amounted to 338.2 million (68% of operational investments) representing an increase of 129% compared to 2011. Proprietary contract revenues during the quarter totaled USD 12.7 million compared to USD 4.5 million in Q4 2011. For the twelve months ended December 2012, proprietary revenue totaled USD 30.3 million, compared to USD 41.7 million in 2011. NSA 124.9 (44%) Europe 82.4 (29%) AMEAP 53.8 (19%) Other 20.3 (7%) TGS’ reporting structure is broken down in the following seismic business segments; North and South America (NSA), Europe (EUR), and Africa, Middle East and Asia Pacific (AMEAP). In addition to these areas, several business units are aggregated to form “Other segments.” These segments include GPS Well Data, GPS Interpretations, Global Services, Imaging and Permanent Reservoir Monitoring. The Company’s land seismic projects in North America are reported under the geographic region, NSA. Sales from NSA totaled USD 124.9 million in Q4 2012 (55.4 in Q4 2011). Sales from EUR amounted to USD 82.4 million (57.6 in Q4 2011), while AMEAP had total sales of USD 53.8 million in Q4 2012 (40.4 in Q4 2011).OPERATIONAL COSTS The amortization of the multi-client library for Q4 2012 amounted to USD 118.9 million (USD 73.7 million in Q4 2011) which corresponds to 44% (42% in Q4 2011) of the net revenues from the multi-client library for the quarter. Amortization fluctuates from quarter to quarter, depending on the sales mix of projects. The amortization rate for the full year of 2012 was 43%, which is the same as in 2011. In Q4 2012, 9% of net multi-client revenues came from pre-2008 vintages which are fully written off the books in line with the Company’s amortization policy. Cost of goods sold (COGS) were USD 4.9 million for the quarter, compared to USD 0.4 million in Q4 2011. The increase is due to higher contract vessel activity in Q4 2012 due to a 2D proprietary project in Colombia. Personnel and other operating costs expensed during the quarter were USD 35.2 million, a decrease of 16% from 2011, mainly due to an impairment which was expensed in 2011. When isolating the effect of the 2011 impairment, personnel and other operating costs are up 59% in Q4 2012 mainly due to increased costs related to employee incentive schemes and operating expenses from Arcis Seismic Solutions Corporation which was acquired by TGS in June 2012. EBITDA AND EBIT Reported EBITDA (Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortization) for the quarter ended 31 December 2012 was USD 240.3 million, which corresponds to 85% of net revenues, up 74% from USD 138.1 million in Q4 2011. Operating profit (EBIT) for the quarter amounts to USD 117.9 million up 88% from USD 62.7 million in Q4 2011. FINANCIAL ITEMS TGS recorded an unrealized currency exchange gain of USD 3.0 million in Q4 2012. TAX For the full year, TGS reports tax charges in accordance with the Accounting Standard IAS 12. Tax charges are computed based on the USD value relating to the appropriate tax provisions according to local tax regulations and currencies in each jurisdiction. The tax charges are influenced not only from local profits, but also from fluctuations in exchange rates between the local currencies and USD. This method makes it difficult to predict tax charges on a quarterly or annual basis. In some tax jurisdictions, the Company receives a tax deduction in respect of remuneration paid as stock options. The Company recognizes an expense for employee services in accordance with IFRS 2 which is based on the fair value of the award at the date of the grant. Management assesses that the normalized operating consolidated tax rate is approximately 31%. The tax rate reported for the quarter is at 32% compared to 31% last year. For the full year the tax rate is 30% compared to 29% last year. NET INCOME AND EARNINGS PER SHARE (EPS) Net income for Q4 2012 was USD 83.9 million (30% of net revenues), up 90% compared to Q4 2011. Quarterly earnings per share (EPS) were USD 0.81 fully diluted (USD 0.82 undiluted), an increase of 89% from Q4 2011.MULTI-CLIENT INVESTMENTS AND LIBRARY The Company’s operational investments in its data library during Q4 2012 were USD 95.3 million, 56% higher than in Q4 2011. The Company recognized USD 65.0 million in net pre-funding revenues in Q4 2012, funding 68% of its operational multi-client investments during the quarter. For 2012, pre-funding revenues totaled USD 338.2 million, funding 68% of operational multi-client investments (USD 496.2 million). MUSD Beginning net book value Non-operational investments* Operational investments Amortization Ending net book value 276.9 (241.5) 511.1 424.3 475.7 2009 335.0 - 266.0 2010 424.3 4.0 295.3 651.2 (247.9) 511.1 (118.9) 651.2 61.1 (73.7) 95.3 (176.7) 511.1 Q4 2011 2012 496.2 3.5 671.2 523.7 - 31.1 (387.3) 2011 475.7 - Q4 2012 MUSD Net MC revenues Change in MC revenue Change in MC investment Amort. in % of net MC revs. Change in net book value 2011 566.9 4% -7% 43% 7% 2010 543.0 40% 2009 27% Q4 2012 268.6 52% 2012 59%5% 44% 42% 56% 46% 12%27% 51% 43% -3% -2% 90% 22% 13% -7% 445.0 176.4 902.0 Q4 2011 -8% *The PPA of the Arcis transaction was finalized in Q4 and has resulted in a slight increase to the multi-client data purchased from third parties BALANCE SHEET AND CASH FLOW The net cash flow from operations for the quarter, after taxes, before investments, totaled USD 243.4 million compared to USD 189.4 million in Q4 2011. As of 31 December 2012, the Company’s total cash holdings amounted to USD 338.7 million compared to USD 335.7 million at 31 December 2011. As of 31 December 2012, TGS held USD 3.7 million in Auction Rate Securities (ARS), all in AAA-rated closed-end funds. TGS classifies its ARS as current financial investments available for sale and has valued its ARS at fair value of USD 3.7 million. Per 31 December 2012, the balance of the provision held between par value and fair value was USD 1.2 million. The Company has sufficient cash and financial capacity to finance its operations and other known potential liabilities without selling the ARS. TGS intends however, to sell these given the right opportunities. The Company believes that no impairment to goodwill and other intangible assets exists. TGS currently does not have any interest bearing debt. Total equity per 31 December 2012 was USD 1,168.4 million, representing 69% of total assets. A total of 64,500 new shares were issued during Q4 2012 in relation to stock options exercised by key employees in November 2012. As of 31 December 2012 TGS holds 1,317,200 treasury shares. BACKLOG TGS’ backlog amounted to USD 142.7 million at the end of Q4, a reduction of 6% from last quarter and 32% below the level of one year ago. Significant revenue commitments to large onshore projects in early 2012 have been recognized through completion of the projects in the past year.
PRESS RELEASE DATE: 2016-07-05 VITEC • www.vitecsoftware.com • info@vitec.se UMEÅ: TVISTEVÄGEN 47 A, 907 29 UMEÅ, SWEDEN. PHONE: +46 90-15 49 00 Vitec Software Group AB (publ) is a Nordic software company that develops and delivers standardised software for industry specific needs. The Group has operations in Sweden, Denmark, Finland and Norway and grows in the mature part of the software industry by consolidating vertical software segments. Our customers include facility management companies, construction and real estate companies, banks and insurance companies, utilities and energy traders, healthcare companies, car spare part dealers and newspaper companies. The Group has 450 employees and had 2015 a turnover of SEK 618 million. Vitec is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. Page 1 (1) Vitec acquires Tietomitta OY in Finland Vitec Software Group AB (publ) has on July 5 agreed to acquire 100% of the shares in the Finnish software company Tietomitta OY, whose product is an industry- specific software for supporting waste-management in Finland. The company reported sales for the fiscal year 2015 of EUR 3.5 million, with approximately 65 % recurring revenue, and EBITDA of EUR 0.8 million. Payment is in cash at closing. Acquisition is expected to directly result in an increase in earnings per share for Vitec. Consolidation is done from the date of acquisition. For more information, please contact Lars Stenlund, CEO Vitec Software Group AB (publ), Phone +46 70 659 49 39 Timo Sivula, CEO Tietomitta OY, Phone +358 (0) 207 780 502 Time of information The information will be made public at 11:00 CET on Tuesday, July 5, 2016.
Smart Eye AB, Första Långgatan 28B, 413 27 Gothenburg, Sweden Tel: + 46 31 60 61 60 Fax: +46 31 701 05 15 E-Mail: info@smarteye.se Gothenburg, 12 October 2017 Press release Smart Eye launches Smart AI Smart Eye today launches Smart AI, the world’s first smart AI platform for use in vehicles’ in- cabin environments. The platform enables the automotive OEM's and Tier 1 suppliers to improve future generations’ vehicles in terms of safety, comfort and autonomous driving. Smart AI makes it possible to process real-time data on the status of the driver as well as the passengers inside the vehicle. The platform supports multiple sensors to enable advanced car, driver and passenger engagements. Smart Eye presents Smart AI today at Nvidia's annual GPU Technology Conference in Munich. The first Smart AI devices were developed for the Drive-Me project and are based on Nvidia's Drive PX 2 Autocruise hardware. The Drive-Me project is the world's first large-scale pilot project for autonomous driving where 100 autonomous Volvo vehicles will be run on public roads in Gothenburg. The Smart AI platform will complement Smart Eye’s existing offerings in the business area Applied Solutions, which provides eye tracking systems for integration in passenger cars and other vehicles. For more information, please contact: Martin Krantz, CEO Smart Eye AB Phone: +46 70-329 26 98 Email: martin.krantz@smarteye.se http://corp.smarteye.se This information is information that Smart Eye AB (publ) is obliged to make public pursuant to the EU Market Abuse Regulation. The information was submitted for publication, through the agency of the contact person set out below, at October 12, 2017 at 08:30 CET. Smart Eye develops and markets eyetracking systems that can measure and calculate a person's gaze. Today the company has two business areas: Research Instruments and Applied Solutions. Within Research Instruments, Smart Eye provides advanced eyetracking systems to measure and analyse human behaviour. Within Applied Solutions, Smart Eye provides eyetracking software for integration in vehicles. Smart Eye was founded in 1999, since when it has become established as one of the leading players for eyetracking analysis of human behaviour. This is based on advanced technical software for eyetracking systems, as well as longstanding experience in this industry. From an early stage, Smart Eye has focused on developing eyetracking for the automotive industry and today is one of the few companies in the world with eyetracking systems for integration in vehicles that live up to the extensive requirements set by the automotive industry. Smart Eye currently has two design wins concerning serial delivery for passenger vehicles from two global automotive Groups. Smart Eye is listed on First North. Erik Penser is Certified Adviser and can be reached at +46-8-463 8000.
Earnings Release Q1 2011 Robert Hobbs Chief Executive Officer Kristian K. Johansen Chief Financial OfficerForward-Looking Statements All statements in this presentation other than statements of historical fact, are forward- looking statements, which are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict and are based upon assumptions as to future events that may not prove accurate. These factors include TGS’ reliance on a cyclical industry and principal customers, TGS’ ability to continue to expand markets for licensing of data, and TGS’ ability to acquire and process data products at costs commensurate with profitability. Actual results may differ materially from those expected or projected in the forward-looking statements. TGS undertakes no responsibility or obligation to update or alter forward-looking statements for any reason. 2Q1 2011 Financial Highlights Net revenues were 132.0 MUSD, down 11% from Q1 2010 Net late sales of 84.8 MUSD were up 16% from last year Net pre-funding of 36.7 MUSD were down 47%, funding 84% of TGS’ operational multi-client investment for the quarter (43.5 MUSD) Proprietary revenues of 10.5 MUSD were up 97% from Q1 2010 Average amortization rate for the multi-client library was 40% compared to 47% in Q1 2010 Operating profit for the first quarter was 59.0 MUSD, 45% of net revenues, compared to 58.8 MUSD (40% of net revenues) in Q1 2010 Cash flow from operations before multi-client investments was 138.2 MUSD, up 30% from Q1 2010 3Q1 2011 Income Statement USD millions, except EPS Q1 2011 Q1 2010 Change in % Net Operating Revenues COGS - Proprietary & Other MC Amortization 48 40% -11%132 148 1 67 4 397% -28% Gross Margin Other Operating Expenses Cost of Stock Options 80 19 19 0.4 0.8 80 0% 0% -49% Depreciation Operating Profit Net Financial Items -3% -150% 0%45% 2 (1) 1 2 59 59 Pre-tax Profit Taxes Net Income -3% -8% -1%42 17 42 31% 60 18 44% 58 4 EPS, Undiluted 0%0.41 0.41
Kristian Johansen Sven Børre Larsen CEO CFO 9 May 2018 Q1 2018 Earnings ReleaseForward-Looking Statements 2 All statements in this presentation other than statements of historical fact, are forward-looking statements, which are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict and are based upon assumptions as to future events that may not prove accurate. These factors include TGS’ reliance on a cyclical industry and principal customers, TGS’ ability to continue to expand markets for licensing of data, and TGS’ ability to acquire and process data products at costs commensurate with profitability. Actual results may differ materially from those expected or projected in the forward-looking statements. TGS undertakes no responsibility or obligation to update or alter forward-looking statements for any reason. ©2018 TGS-NOPEC Geophysical Company ASA. All rights reservedQ1 2018 Highlights • Q1 net revenues of 135 MUSD, up 56% from 86 MUSD in Q1 2017 • Net late sales of 115 MUSD, up 67% from 69 MUSD Q1 2017 • Net pre-funding revenues of 18 MUSD were up 15% from 15 MUSD in Q1 2017, funding 57% of TGS’ operational multi-client investments for the quarter • Operational multi-client investments of 31 MUSD in addition to 3 MUSD from risk sharing arrangements • Operating profit for the quarter was 25 MUSD compared to 2 MUSD in Q1 2017 • Free cash flow was 71 MUSD compared to 74 MUSD in Q1 2017 • Cash balance of 302 MUSD at 31 March 2018 in addition to undrawn 75 MUSD Revolving Credit Facility • Quarterly dividend maintained at USD 0.20 per share, up 33% from Q1 2017 • Improved market conditions driven by higher oil price and improved E&P cash flow ©2018 TGS-NOPEC Geophysical Company ASA. All rights reserved 3Operational Highlights
PRESS RELEASE 03 June 2009 Stockholm Opcon acquires 100 % of Saxlund – grows in bioenergy and speeds up internationalization Opcon AB, the energy and environmental technology Group, has acquired 100% of Saxlund Holding AB, which is one of Northern Europe’s leading suppliers of equipment for bioenergy plants. In addition to the 75% that Opcon earlier signed a letter of intent to acquire, Opcon has now acquired the remaining 25%. The total purchase sum for 100% of Saxlund has been set to SEK 18 million cash and 1,625,000 newly issued shares in Opcon that will be directed to former owners of Saxlund, a dilution of 7.9%. The acquisition will not raise Opcon’s long-term debt. The acquisition is being made to further strengthen Opcon’s expanding Renewable Energy business area with an internationally strong project organisation and a well-established customer and supplier network, especially in Europe, but also on other markets such as the Middle East and China. The move also reinforces Opcon’s position within bioenergy and means that Opcon can offer customers more comprehensive solutions. Saxlund currently has a very strong position not least in the Nordic region, where the company has done business for over 40 years. The Group operates with subsidiaries on the fast-growing German and UK markets, which feature high electricity prices, a rising environmental awareness, mandatory legislation and subsidies for renewable energy production. The Group is also represented in other countries via 25 partners. In addition to activities within bioenergy, Saxlund supplies equipment for sludge, slag, ash and waste handling. The Saxlund Group has 66 employees and had sales of SEK 284 million in the 2007/2008 financial year and reported a positive operating profit. At the time of the signing of the binding letter of intent, Opcon made the assessment that both sales and earnings in Saxlund would decrease in the short term as result of the financial crisis and the economic downturn, but pick up again in a year or so. After more input regarding the situation, Opcon no longer envisions a decrease in earnings. Earnings are expected to be positive also in the short term. New elements have also surfaced out of Saxlund’s R&D activities that further strengthen Opcon in its view of strong future synergies. “We are currently creating a stronger, international organisation that can offer a broader product portfolio and quote for, and implement, larger projects. This applies especially for the fast expanding bioenergy and pellets markets where we can see large synergies, not least with Opcon’s subsidiary, Svensk Rökgasenergi (SRE), which offers its services to the same or similar customers. With the acquisition of Saxlund and the synergies this gives for production, sales and purchasing we expect to continue the strong growth we have initiated within bioenergy, where we have experienced some organisational difficulties meeting our fast expanding order intake and demand. Meanwhile we gain a better platform for sales of more comprehensive solutions to the same customers, where our systemsfor waste heat recovery, either for electricity generation with Opcon Powerbox or for drying biomass, are unique for our markets,” says Rolf Hasselström, President and CEO of Opcon AB. “It is a healthy and strong company we are buying, with competent people, competitive products and a very strong position in the market. We do not need to feed cash into it. It is a company with positive cash flow and cash in the bank,” says Rolf Hasselström. In order to acquire 100 % of Saxlund Holding AB and its subsidiaries, the board of Opcon AB has decided to use the authorization given by the Annual General Meeting of Opcon AB shareholders to issue 1,625,000 new shares to former stockholders of Saxlund Holding AB. After issuing new shares Opcon’s share capital will increase by SEK 8.1 million. In order to get the deal through, Opcon’s main shareholder Mats Gabrielsson (GIAB) has guaranteed earlier owners of Saxlund a market for a total of 240 000 shares. For further information please contact: Niklas Johansson, vice president, Investor Relations, tel. 08-466 45 00, 070-592 54 53 Opcon AB, Box 15085, SE-104 65 Stockholm Tel. +46 (0)8 466 45 00, fax +46 (0)8 716 76 61 e-mail: info@opcon.se www.opcon.se About the Opcon Group Opcon is an energy and environmental technology Group that develops, produces and markets systems and products for eco-friendly, efficient and resource-effective use of energy. Opcon has operations in Sweden, China and Denmark. There are around 340 employees. The company’s shares are listed on Nasdaq OMX Stockholm. The Group comprises three business areas: Renewable Energy focuses on generating electricity from surplus heat, bioenergy, systems for handling natural gas, industrial cooling, heat recovery, drying of biomass, cleaning of flue gases, air systems for fuel cells and measurement and monitoring of processes. The business area comprises the following subsidiaries: Svenska Rotor Maskiner (SRM), Opcon Energy Systems (OES), REF Technology, Svensk Rökgasenergi (SRE), Värmlands Montage Teknik and the trademarks Opcon Autorotor and Mitec Instrument. Engine Efficiency focuses on ignition systems for combustion engines including ethanol, natural gas and biogas engines. The business area comprises the following subsidiaries: SEM, Opcon Technology Suzhou and Laminova Production. Mobility Products focuses on technology for positioning, motion and regulation for electrical vehicles and electrical wheelchairs. The business area comprises the following subsidiaries: REAC and Balle.
TGS | EARNINGS RELEASE 24 APRIL 2014 TGS EARNINGS RELEASE 1st QUARTER RESULTS 1st QUARTER HIGHLIGHTS  Consolidated net revenues were USD 222 million, compared to USD 211 million in Q1 2013.  Net late sales totaled USD 137 million, up 9% from USD 127 million in Q1 2013.  Net pre-funding revenues were USD 74 million, up 33% from Q1 2013, funding 57% of the Company’s operational multi-client investments during Q1 (investments of USD 129 million, up 3% from Q1 2013).  Proprietary revenues were USD 11 million, compared to USD 29 million in Q1 2013.  Operating profit (EBIT) was USD 94 million (42% of net revenues), compared to USD 89 million (42% of net revenues) in Q1 2013.  Cash flow from operations was USD 223 million, compared to USD 179 million in Q1 2013.  Earnings per share (fully diluted) were USD 0.66, up 13% from Q1 2013. “Our strong results in Q1 2014 have further confirmed the quality of our data library. We are pleased to report record late sales for a first quarter period and a promising start of a new year. As of 31 March 2014, our cash holdings amounted to USD 366 million. This supports our commitment to deliver shareholder returns through a combination of growth, dividends and share buy-backs” TGS’ CEO Robert Hobbs stated.Multi‐ client Seismic 87% Propr. Seismic 5%GPS 8% KEY FIGURES REVENUE BREAKDOWN TGS’ largest business activity is developing, managing, conducting and selling multi-client seismic surveys. This activity accounted for 87% of the Company’s business during the quarter. Geological Products and Services (GPS) accounted for 8% of net revenues in the first quarter, while proprietary seismic revenues accounted for 5% of net revenues. Net late sales amounted to USD 137.4 million compared to USD 126.5 million in Q1 2013. Net pre-funding revenues totaled USD 74.3 million, an increase of 33% from Q1 2013. The pre- funding revenues recognized in the first quarter funded 57% of the operational investments of USD 129.5 million in the multi-client library. Proprietary contract revenues during the quarter totaled USD 10.7 million compared to USD 28.9 million in Q1 2013. TGS’ reporting structure is broken down in the following seismic business segments; North and South America (NSA), Europe (EUR) and Africa, Middle East and Asia Pacific (AMEAP). In addition to these areas, several business units are aggregated to form an “Other” segment. This segment includes GPS Well Data, GPS Interpretations, Global Services, Imaging and Permanent Reservoir Monitoring. The Company’s land seismic projects in North America are reported under the geographic region NSA. Sales from NSA totaled USD 100.0 million in Q1 2014 (USD 134.5 million in Q1 2013). Sales from EUR amounted to USD 41.5 million in Q1 2014 (USD 27.6 million in Q1 2013), while AMEAP had total sales of USD 55.7 million in Q1 2014 (USD 28.2 million in Q1 2013). (All amounts in USD 1,000s) Q1 2014 Q1 2013 Net operating revenues 222,322 211,179 EBIT 93,788 89,298 Pre-tax profit 97,113 86,837 Net income 68,017 60,345 EBIT margin 42% 42% Return on capital employed 31% 35% Equity ratio 77% 73% MC library opening net book value 758,093 651,165 Investments in new projects 129,451 125,795 MC data purchased from third parties - - Amortization (87,365) (70,146) Exchange rate adjustments (216) - MC library ending net book value 799,963 706,814 Pre-funding % on operational investments 57% 44% NSA 100.0 (45%) Europe 41.5 (19%) AMEAP 55.7 (25%) Other 25.0 (11%)OPERATIONAL COSTS The amortization of the multi-client library for Q1 2014 amounted to USD 87.4 million, (USD 70.1 million in Q1 2013) which corresponds to 41% (38% in Q1 2013) of the net revenues from the multi-client library for the quarter. Amortization fluctuates from quarter to quarter, depending on the sales mix of projects. In Q1 2014, 23% of net multi-client revenues came from pre-2010 vintages which are fully written off in line with the Company’s amortization policy. Cost of goods sold (COGS) were USD 2.4 million for the quarter, compared to USD 15.9 million in Q1 2013. The decrease is due to lower proprietary vessel activity in Q1 2014 compared to Q1 2013. Personnel costs expensed during the quarter were USD 24.2 million compared to USD 21.9 million in Q1 2013. The increase is mainly related to higher employee bonus expenses and a higher number of employees. Other operating expenses were USD 9.7 million, slightly up from USD 9.3 million in Q1 2013. EBITDA AND EBIT Reported EBITDA (Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortization) for the quarter ended 31 March 2014 was USD 184.6 million, which corresponds to 83% of net revenues, up 13% from USD 162.9 million in Q1 2013. Operating profit (EBIT) for the quarter amounts to USD 93.8 million which is up from USD 89.3 million in Q1 2013. FINANCIAL ITEMS TGS recorded a currency exchange gain of USD 2.2 million in Q1 2014 which is mainly due to unrealized gains related to translating local currency bank accounts into USD. TAX For the full year, TGS reports tax charges in accordance with the Accounting Standard IAS 12. Tax charges are computed based on the USD value relating to the appropriate tax provisions according to local tax regulations and currencies in each jurisdiction. The tax charges are influenced not only from local profits, but also from fluctuations in exchange rates between the local currencies and USD. This method makes it difficult to predict tax charges on a quarterly or annual basis. TGS’ largest operating entity is a Norwegian tax resident. Accordingly, the tax calculations are performed in NOK. Based on the resolution received from the Norwegian Tax Authorities in May 2013, TGS changed its methods for calculating taxes. A consequence of the resolution is increased volatility in temporary differences between reported tax and actual tax payments which leads to higher currency exchange exposure. Currency effects within the current year are classified as tax expenses. In some tax jurisdictions, the Company receives a tax deduction in respect of remuneration paid as stock options. The Company recognizes an expense for employee services in accordance with IFRS 2 which is based on the fair value of the award at the date of the grant. Management assesses that the normalized operating consolidated tax rate is approximately 30%. The tax rate reported for the quarter is at 30% compared to 31% last year.NET INCOME AND EARNINGS PER SHARE (EPS) Net income for Q1 2014 was USD 68.0 million (31% of net revenues), up from 60.3 million in Q1 2013. Quarterly earnings per share (EPS) were USD 0.66 fully diluted (USD 0.67 undiluted), which is up 13% from Q1 2013. MULTI-CLIENT INVESTMENTS AND LIBRARY Exchange rate adjustments are related to libraries with functional currencies other than USD BALANCE SHEET AND CASH FLOW The net cash flow from operations for the quarter, after taxes, before investments, totaled USD 223.2 million compared to USD 178.5 million in Q1 2013. As of 31 March 2014, the Company’s total cash holdings amounted to USD 365.7 million compared to USD 280.7 million at 31 December 2013. As of 31 March 2014, TGS held USD 3.9 million in Auction Rate Securities (ARS), all in AAA-rated closed-end funds. The Company has not recognized any impairment to goodwill or other intangible assets during Q1 2014. TGS currently does not have any interest bearing debt. Total equity per 31 March 2014 was USD 1,356.6 million, representing 77% of total assets. A total of 31,500 new shares were issued during Q1 2014 in relation to stock options exercised by key employees in February 2014. During the quarter, the Company bought back 115,000 shares. As of 31 March 2014, TGS holds 1,531,200 treasury shares. BACKLOG TGS’ backlog amounted to USD 212.7 million at the end of Q1 2014, an increase of 45% from the level one year ago. The increase from Q1 2013 is mainly due to two large 3D investments in Australia which were started in Q1 2014 with significant industry support. MUSD Beginning net book value Non-operational investments Operational investments Amortization Exchange Rate Adjustment Ending net book value 758.1 2011 475.7 - 276.9 2012 511.1 31.1 496.2 (387.3) (247.9) (87.4) (2.1) - - 438.9 (329.8) 511.1 651.2 800.0 125.8 (70.1) 129.5 (241.5) 706.8 295.3 (0.2) - Q1 2013 - 758.1 651.2 - Q1 2014 2013 651.2 - 2010 475.7 424.3 4.0 - MUSD Net MC revenues Change in MC revenue Change in MC investment Amort. in % of net MC revs. Change in net book value Q1 2014 211.6 16% 902.0 43% 2011 7% 2013 824.1 -9% -17% 40% 16% 12% 543.0 90% 46% 2012 -3% 41% 38% 3% 43% 27% 24% 6% 9% 22% 13% 59% -7% 566.9 2010 182.3 Q1 2013 4%
AarhusKarlshamn AB Phone +46 40 627 83 00 info@aak.com 556669-2850 Jungmansgatan 12 Fax +46 40 627 83 11 www.aak.com SE5566692850001 SE-211 19 Malmö Registered office: Malmö SWEDEN February 17, 2014 Press release AAK investing in Brazil AAK will initiate construction of a new speciality and semi-speciality edible oils factory in Jundiai, São Paulo, Brazil. “There is a large potential for AAK in the Brazilian market. It is the world´s 7th largest economy and a number of our global customers already have significant presence. Currently AAK has a well established Chocolate & Confectionery business supplying out of our factory in Montevideo, Uruguay. However, pursuing our global growth strategy, AAK needs to be present with production capability also in Brazil. This new factory is an integral part of AAKtion, and adds presence in a growth market which is identified as strategically important”, says Arne Frank, President and CEO, AAK Group. The investment is expected to be approximately SEK 400 million over a two-year period. The start- up of the new factory is planned for the latter part of 2015 and fully utilized it will increase AAK´s total capacity by 100,000 to 120,000 MT. “The new factory will expand our product portfolio of Food Ingredients and Chocolate & Confectionery products in Brazil and particularly strengthen our ability of supplying Bakery and Dairy solutions as well as further develop our Chocolate & Confectionery business. The new factory will also include an Innovation Center which will give our customers the possibility to work closely with AAK´s Customer Innovation team when developing new products and solutions”, says Edmond Borit, Managing Director AAK South America. For further information, please contact: Fredrik Nilsson, CFO Phone: + 46 40 627 83 34 Mobile: + 46 708 95 22 21 Anders Byström, Director External Accounting & Investor Relations Phone: +46 40 627 83 32 Mobile: +46 709 88 56 13 The information is that which AarhusKarlshamn AB (publ) is obliged to publish under the provisions of the Stock Exchange and Clearing Operations Act and/or the Trading in Financial Instruments Act. The information was released to the media for publication on February 17, 2014 at 8.55 am CET. AarhusKarlshamn (AAK) is one of the world’s leading producers of high value-added speciality vegetable oils and fats solutions. These oils and fats solutions are characterized by a high level of technological content and innovation. AAK`s solutions are used as substitute for butter-fat and cocoa butter, trans-free and low saturated solutions but also addressing other needs of our customers. AAK has production facilities in Denmark, Mexico, the Netherlands, Sweden, Great Britain, Uruguay and the US. Further AAK has also toll manufacturing operations in Russia and Malaysia. The company is organized in three Business Areas; Food Ingredients, Chocolate and Confectionery Fats and Technical Products & Feed. AAK’s shares are traded on the NASDAQ OMX, Stockholm, within the Large Cap segment. Further information on AAK can be found on the company’s website www.aak.com.
1 Isofol Medical AB, Biotech Center, Arvid Wallgrens Backe 20, SE-413 46 Gothenburg, Sweden February 19 2018 Isofol Medical adopts the World Health Organization recommended name (INN) arfolitixorin for Modufolin® Isofol Medical AB (publ) today announce that the company will in the future be adopting the generic name arfolitixorin for its lead candidate, up to now referred to as Modufolin®. Arfolitixorin was recently accepted by World Health Organization (WHO) as the International Non-proprietary Name (INN) for the active ingredient of Isofol's lead product Modufolin®. “We are delighted that the WHO has recognized the unique nature of our compound by accepting arfolitixorin as an INN. This is an important step towards bringing a new drug to market,” said Anders Rabbe, Chief Executive Officer at Isofol Medical AB. Chief Medical Officer, Karin Ganlöv, commented that “this comes at an important time as Isofol is preparing to start the pivotal phase III study ISO-CC-007 in treatment of advanced colorectal cancer. Arfolitixorin will now be used in all scientific communication with the medical community.” • The generic name arfolitixorin for Modufolin® was taken under consideration by the World Health Organization as a Proposed International Non-proprietary Name (INN) in July 2 of 2017. • As per no objection during the following 4 months, arfolitixorin has reached the status of recommended INN and will be included in the forthcoming list of recommended INNs, generic names, published by the WHO. • Isofol Medical is also in the process of selecting a novel brand name for arfolitixorin. This is planned to become approved by Medical authorities well in time before market approval. International Non-proprietary Names International Non-proprietary Names (INN) facilitate the proper identification of pharmaceutical substances or active pharmaceutical ingredients. Each INN is a unique name that is globally recognized. The INN system has been coordinated by the World Health Organization since 1953 and has a constitutional mandate to "develop, establish and promote international standards with respect to biological, pharmaceutical and similar products". For more information, please contact: Anders Rabbe, CEO, Isofol Medical AB (publ) E-mail: anders.rabbe@isofolmedical.com Phone: +46 (0)707 646 500 About arfolitixorin (Modufolin®) Arfolitixorin (Modufolin®) is developed to increase the efficacy of the cytotoxic agent 5-fluorouracil (5FU) and as a rescue drug after high-dose methotrexate treatment. Arfolitixorin (Modufolin®) is suitable for all patients irrespective of their capacity to activate folates since it doesn’t require metabolic activation to exert its effect. The active ingredient in arfolitixorin (Modufolin®), [6R]-5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate, is the key active metabolite of the widely used folate-based drugs leucovorin and levoleucovorin. About Isofol Medical AB (publ) Isofol Medical AB (publ) is a drug development company within the field of oncology developing arfolitixorin (Modufolin®), primarily as a treatment for advanced colorectal cancer and as a rescue drug after high-dose methotrexate treatment in osteosarcoma (bone cancer). Through a worldwide exclusive license agreement, Isofol holds the rights to develop and commercialise arfolitixorin (Modufolin®) within oncology with access to the unique patented production process and the production capabilities of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany. Isofol Medical AB is traded on the Nasdaq First North Premier. Certified Adviser is FNCA Sweden AB.2 Isofol Medical AB, Biotech Center, Arvid Wallgrens Backe 20, SE-413 46 Gothenburg, Sweden www.isofol.se
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE A significant step in understanding the binding of the malaria parasite to blood cells enabled by the ExpreS2 technology platform Hørsholm, Denmark, and Oxford, UK, 18th August, 2014 – Biotech company ExpreS2ion® Biotechnologies today announced the publication of the article: 'Structure of malaria invasion protein RH5 with erythrocyte basigin and blocking antibodies' in the high impact scientific journal Nature, with teams at the University of Oxford. The scientists have been working together since the University of Oxford took a license to ExpreS2ions’ Drosophila Schneider-2 cell-based protein production technology platform - ExpreS2. The RH5 protein is essential for the invasion of human erythrocytes by the parasite that causes the most deadly form of malaria, Plasmodium falciparum. This is an essential stage in the life cycle of the parasite and a target for development of therapeutics to prevent the disease. The data now published reveals the structure of RH5 and shows how it interacts with its binding partner, basigin, from the human erythrocyte. It also demonstrates how antibodies can be used to prevent RH5 from binding to basigin. These findings will allow the development of improved vaccines to prevent malaria. Dr Wian de Jongh, ExpreS2ion’s CSO, and one of the authors of the Nature paper commented: “We are thrilled that our work with this challenging-to-produce malaria protein is contributing to the advancement of this promising vaccine antigen. The collaboration with the teams at the Jenner Institute and the Department of Biochemistry at the University of Oxford is providing relevant scientific advances to malaria research. This publication in a high impact scientific journal is a recognition of the relevance of the ExpreS2 platform in advancing malaria and vaccine research through enabling the production of difficult and complex proteins, in a GMP- compatible system.” Dr Simon Draper, Associate Professor at the Jenner Institute and Group Leader for the Blood- Stage Malaria Vaccine Programme commented: “these new data on the structure of the RH5 protein will greatly expedite our ability to develop a highly effective vaccine against this important and critical target within the blood-stage malaria parasite. We can now begin to understand how human antibodies neutralise red blood cell invasion by the malaria parasite and use this information to design improved versions of the vaccine that focus the immune response on the most susceptible regions of the RH5 protein. Our collaboration with ExpreS2ion, and access to the ExpreS2 platform at the Jenner Institute in Oxford, has greatly expanded our capabilities to develop new clinically-relevant protein vaccines against difficult pathogens, suchas malaria. We are looking forward to working further with ExpreS2ion Biotechnologies as we progress this important new RH5 malaria target into early-phase clinical trials at Oxford. Professor Matthew Higgins’ team at the Department of Biochemistry study interactions between the malaria-causing parasites and their human ligands. He commented: ‘the RH5 protein from the malaria parasite proved to be very difficult to express in large quantities and we were delighted when ExpreS2ion showed that they could produce enough for the heavy requirements of structural biology. ExpreS2ion were extremely helpful as we transferred the S2 cell system to the lab’ and their system was absolutely necessary for us to solve the RH5:basigin structure.’ Contacts: University of Oxford Professor Matthew Higgins, Biochemistry Department: matthew.higgins@bioch.ox.ac.uk Professor Simon Draper, The Jenner Institute: simon.draper@ndm.ox.ac.uk Telephone: +44 1865 270000 ExpreS2ion Biotechnologies Sancha Salgueiro: sas@expres2ionbio.com. Telephone: +45 41666121 About ExpreS2ion® Biotechnologies ExpreS2ion Biotechnologies has developed a complete proprietary protein expression platform, ExpreS2, based on engineered Drosophila Schneider-2 (S2) cells to serve recombinant protein production needs in the biopharmaceutical industry as well as in academia. ExpreS2 is a stable, non-lytic protein expression platform, fully cGMP compatible, that allows quick access to proteins, excellent protein expression capability, scalability, applicability to high cell density production processes and regulatory friendliness. ExpreS2ion Biotechnologies offers technology platform licensing opportunities for use in R&D and commercial protein manufacturing. For more information visit www.expres2ionbio.com About The Jenner Institute: The Jenner Institute is a research partnership between the University of Oxford and the Pirbright Institute (formerly Institute for Animal Health). The Institute focuses on the parallel development of human and veterinary vaccines against major global diseases – from early-stage research through to clinical trials. For more information on the Oxford vaccine programmes visit: www.jenner.ac.uk About Oxford University: Oxford University’s Medical Sciences Division is one of the largest biomedical research centres in Europe, with over 2,500 people involved in research and more than 2,800 students. The University is rated the best in the world for medicine, and it is home to the UK’s top-ranked medical school. From the genetic and molecular basis of disease to the latest advances in neuroscience, Oxford is at the forefront of medical research. It has one of the largest clinical trial portfolios in the UKand great expertise in taking discoveries from the lab into the clinic. Partnerships with the local NHS Trusts enable patients to benefit from close links between medical research and healthcare delivery. A great strength of Oxford medicine is its long-standing network of clinical research units in Asia and Africa, enabling world-leading research on the most pressing global health challenges such as malaria, TB, HIV/AIDS and flu. For more information visit www.medsci.ox.ac.uk/about # # # #
ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB Press release, 2017-02-09 ExpreS2ion’s Licensee, VaxInnate, is Winding Down Operations Horsholm, Denmark, February 9, 2017 – Today, ExpreS2ion Biotechnologies ApS (“ExpreS2ion”), a fully owned subsidiary of ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB, announces that VaxInnate Corporation (“VaxInnate”), a US based research licensee, is winding down its operations. This in effect terminates the Research License Agreement announced September 20, 2016. As all payments was received up-front, this has no financial impact on ExpreS2ion. The Research License Agreement On September 20, 2016, ExpreS2ion and VaxInnate announced the signing of a new Research License Agreement (“RLA”), granting VaxInnate the right to conduct research based on the ExpreS2 platform technology. VaxInnate has now communicated that it is winding down its operations, primarily due to expiry of a grant awarded by the US government for its lead development project. ExpreS2ion have received the license fee upfront, so the termination of the RLA has no current financial impact on ExpreS2ion. Steen Klysner, CEO, ExpreS2ion, comments “It is naturally sad to hear that an accomplished partner as VaxInnate due to lack of funding is winding down its operations and thus terminating a promising technology and pipeline. This however, is not related to the ExpreS2 platform and has no financial impact on our business. We currently see high interest from potential collaboration partners and customers, which we expect to lead to new licensees and tasks for ExpreS2ion." Certified Advisor Sedermera Fondkommission is appointed as Certified Adviser for ExpreS2ion. For further information, please contact: Steen Klysner, CEO Telephone: +45 2062 9908 E-mail: sk@expres2ionbio.com This information is information that ExpreS2ion is obliged to make public pursuant to the EU Market Abuse Regulation. The information was submitted for publication, through the agency of the contact person set out above on February 9, 2017. About ExpreS2ion ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB, with company register number 559033-3729, has through the wholly owned Danish subsidiary ExpreS2ion Biotechnologies ApS, developed a platform technology enabling cost effective and robust production of complex proteins for the development of vaccines and diagnostics for e.g. Malaria and Zika. Since foundation in 2010, the subsidiary has used its patented ExpreS2 platform to produce more than 200 proteins in collaboration with research institutions and biopharmaceutical companies, with an efficiency and success rate superior to competing technologies.
1 Isofol Medical AB, Biotech Center, Arvid Wallgrens Backe 20, SE-413 46 Gothenburg, Sweden Isofols appoints Sven Erickson as Chief Commercial Officer August 18 2017 In preparation for partnering negotiations with pharma companies Isofol Medical AB (publ) announces the appointment of Sven Erickson as Chief Commercial Officer. Mr. Erickson is an experienced life Science executive and brings to Isofol a track record of success in commercialization of pharmaceuticals, international license deals and marketing, spanning more than two decades. Isofol Medical AB (publ), a clinical stage oncology company about to enter a registration study within first line colorectal cancer treatment, announces the appointment of Sven Erickson as Chief Commercial Officer. He will lead the licensing and commercialization efforts of the company’s lead candidate Modufolin®. Mr. Erickson is a life Science executive with over 20 years’ experience from research, clinical development and successful commercialization of diagnostics and pharmaceuticals, especially in the oncology field. With a strong track record of negotiating international license deals, Mr. Eriksson will be an important driving force behind the commercialization of Modufolin® and the company’s partnering efforts in preparations of a potential market approval. Anders Rabbe, CEO of Isofol, says "Sven’s appointment is in line with Isofol’s strategy to bolstering our commercial and partnering capabilities as the pivotal study of Modufolin® draws closer. His consistent, successful track record and strong business expertise will ensure that Modufolin® reaches a favorable licensing agreement and strong presence at future partnering and scientific conferences. It’s with great pleasure I can welcome Sven to Isofol during these exciting times " Prior to joining Isofol, Mr. Erickson served as Director of Medical Affairs in the Nordic region at PTC Therapeutics. Preceding his employment at PTC Therapeutics was his role as Product Search and Evaluation Manager at Medivir, a research-based pharmaceutical company with focus on oncology, managing in-licensing operations. Before joining Medivir in 2014, Dr Erickson also held different positions at Novartis including Scandinavian Medical Head Critical Care. Mr.Eriksson is a PhD in Experimental Oncology from The Karolinska Institute, Sweden. "I’m more than excited to join Isofol and its great team," said Dr. Erickson, "and I am looking forward to put Modufolin® at the top of the mind of potential collaborators and, ensure in time, the commercialization of Modufolin®." For more information, please contact: Anders Rabbe, CEO, Isofol Medical AB E-mail: anders.rabbe@isofolmedical.com Phone: +46 (0)707 646 500 About Modufolin® Modufolin® (active ingredient [6R]-5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate), is a novel folate-based compound developed to increase the efficacy and reduce the side effects of antimetabolites used in cancer treatment. It is the key active metabolite of the widely used folate-based drugs leucovorin and levoleucovorin. As Modufolin® does not require metabolic activation to exert its effect, Modufolin® is suitable for all patients irrespective of their capacity to activate folates. Modufolin® is currently being evaluated in a clinical Phase II study. About Isofol Medical AB Isofol Medical AB is a clinical stage oncology company developing Modufolin® as a first-line treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer and as a rescue drug after high-dose methotrexate treatment in osteosarcoma. Through a worldwide exclusive license agreement, Isofol Medical holds the rights to commercialise Modufolin®2 Isofol Medical AB, Biotech Center, Arvid Wallgrens Backe 20, SE-413 46 Gothenburg, Sweden with access to the unique patented production process and the production capabilities of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany. Isofol Medical AB is traded on the NASDAQ First North Premier. Certified Adviser is FNCA Sweden AB. www.isofol.se
Press release Östersund 2017-06-16 Press release Östersund 2017-06-16 Diös Fastigheter owns and develops both commercial and residential properties in prioritized growth areas in northern Sweden. With a market value of SEK 12.6 billion, a portfolio of 351 properties and a lettable area of 1.422 sq., our vision is to be the most active and sought-after landlord in our market. The properties are located from Borlänge to Luleå with its head office in Östersund. The company has since 2005 had a continuous growth in value in the property portfolio and the share is listed on Nasdaq OMX Stockholm, Mid Cap. Learn more about Diös on www.dios.se Diös Fastigheter in Real Estate Transaction with Lerstenen in Umeå Diös Fastigheter acquires two central located commercial properties with an area of 6 500 square meters and sells two residential properties with an area of 6 500 square meters in a real estate transaction with Lerstenen. The underlying property value of the acquisition amount to SEK 110 million and for the sale SEK 90 million. Change of possession will be on 1 October. The acquired commercial properties are located in central Umeå. The two largest tenants are Fitness 24 Seven and Max Matthiessen. Full year rental income is SEK 8,5 million. The sold residential properties contain about 100 apartments and are located in Ersboda, Umeå. They are fully rented and the full year rental income is SEK 6,7 million. The transaction takes form as company transaction and the underlying property value is in line with Diös most recent valuation. The results will be reported during the fourth quarter in 2017. – This is a strategic deal were we concentrate our property portfolio towards the city centres. We see great potential in developing the area around the Thule house in the centre of Umeå and focus on local presence and good service, says Göran Fonzén, Business Area Manager, Diös Fastigheter Västerbotten. - This acquisition gives oss a better balance between resedential properties and commercial properties in our portfolio. We also release capital to be used in projects within new constructions, säger Erik Sällström, COO och Head of Investments, Lerstenen For more information please contact Lars-Göran Dahl, Head of Business Development, Diös Fastigheter Telefon: 010-470 95 04 E-post: lars-goran.dahl@dios.se Erik Sällström, COO and Head of Investments, Lerstenen Telefon: 070-602 74 42 E-post: erik.sallstrom@lerstenen.se Newsec has initiated the transaction and the law firm Glimstedt has been legal expert. This information is information that Diös Fastigheter AB]is obliged to make public pursuant to the EU Market Abuse Regulation. The information was submitted for publication, through the agency of the contact person set out above, at 07.00 CET on 16 June 2017.
PRESS RELEASE DATE: 2016-09-07 VITEC • www.vitecsoftware.com • info@vitec.se UMEÅ: TVISTEVÄGEN 47 A, 907 29 UMEÅ, SWEDEN. PHONE: +46 90-15 49 00 Vitec Software Group AB (publ) is a Nordic software company that develops and delivers standardised software for industry specific needs. The Group has operations in Sweden, Denmark, Finland and Norway and grows in the mature part of the software industry by consolidating vertical software segments. Our customers include facility management companies, construction and real estate companies, banks and insurance companies, utilities and energy traders, healthcare companies, car spare part dealers and newspaper companies. The Group has 450 employees and had 2015 a turnover of SEK 618 million. Vitec is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. Page 1 (1) Vitec acquires Futursoft OY in Finland Vitec Software Group AB (publ) has on September 7 agreed to acquire 100 % of the shares in the Finnish software company Futursoft OY specialized in software for the automotive and machinery industries. The company's customers are in the spare parts trade, maintenance and repair, and sales of heavy machinery and equipment. Overall, it has about 1,700 customers and 5,000 users in Finland, Sweden and Estonia. The company reported sales for the fiscal year that ended 2015-09-30, of EUR 4.0 million, with approximately 69 % recurring revenue and EBITDA of EUR 1.1 million. Payment is in cash at closing. Acquisition is expected to directly result in an increase in earnings per share for Vitec. Consolidation is from the acquisition date. The acquired company will be included in the Vitec business segment "Auto". For more information, please contact Lars Stenlund, CEO Vitec Software Group AB (publ), Phone +46 70 659 49 39 Mikko Pohjanharju, CEO Futursoft OY, tel +358 207 288 730 Time of information The information will be made public at 12:15 CET on Wednesday, September 7, 2016.
Press release November 7, 2017 Gothenburg Reimbursement codes obtained for doctor´s time during EVLP procedure As of January 1, 2018, hospitals in the US will be able to use three CPT codes to obtain reimbursement for doctors’ time spent using the XPS for an EVLP (Ex Vivo Lung Perfusion) procedure. The new codes will also simplify the reimbursement process for the hospitals. The XVIVO Perfusion US team with the help from Professor Ed Cantu (with the University of Pennsylvania) have worked for 18 months to secure CPT procedural codes for the XPS EVLP process. The first code is related to preparation of marginal donor lungs, the second code is related to the EVLP on an organ perfusion system of a marginal lung, and the third code is related to any additional hour(s) needed for an EVLP. The three codes together will simplify the process for reimbursement by the surgical team. A CPT (Current Procedural Terminology) code is a direct mechanism for a hospital and surgical team to bill for a specific procedure. Therefore, with the new CPT codes, a barrier to use the XPS has been overcome. Thus, more clinicians will be able to bill for their efforts. “We are pleased that 18 months of challenging work paid off in the three new CPT codes that will simplify for the US hospitals to get reimbursement as well as give the hospital the ability to get reimbursed for all the work the surgical team puts into an EVLP. The company believes that this will increase utilization of XVIVO Perfusion’s EVLP technology and products since a barrier is removed,” says XVIVO Perfusion’s CEO Magnus Nilsson. November 7, 2017 Gothenburg Magnus Nilsson, CEO XVIVO Perfusion AB (publ) For further information please contact: Christoffer Rosenblad, CFO, +46 735 192159, email: christoffer.rosenblad@xvivoperfusion.com Magnus Nilsson, CEO, +46 31 788 2150, email: magnus.nilsson@xvivoperfusion.com _____________________________________________________________________________________________________ XVIVO Perfusion AB is a medical technology company which develops solutions and systems for assessing and preserving organs outside the body and for selecting usable organs and maintaining them in optimal condition pending transplantation. The company is headquartered in Gothenburg, Sweden, and has one office in Lund, Sweden and one office in the USA. The Xvivo share is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm and has the ticker symbol XVIVO. More information can be found on the website www.xvivoperfusion.com. _____________________________________________________________________________________________________ XVIVO Perfusion AB (publ), Box 53015, SE-400 14 Göteborg. Corporate identity number 556561-0424. Tel: +46 31 788 21 50. Fax: +46 31 788 21 69. E-mail: info@xvivoperfusion.com. Website: www.xvivoperfusion.com This information is information that Xvivo Perfusion AB (publ) is obliged to make public pursuant to the EU Market Abuse Regulation. The information was submitted for publication, through the agency of the contact person set out above, at 8:30 a.m. CET on November 7, 2017. This is a translation of the Swedish version of the press release. When in doubt, the Swedish wording prevails.
Wallenstam is a property company that manages, builds and develops properties for sustainable living and enterprise in Stockholm, Gothenburg and Uppsala. The property holdings are valued at around SEK 40 billion and the customer base consists of about 7,700 households and 1,000 enterprises. The total lettable area is around 1 million sq m. Wallenstam is self-sufficient in renewable energy through the company and its own wind turbines in operation. The company’s B shares have been listed on Nasdaq Stockholm since 1984. Press release FAO: News Editor Gothenburg, January 15, 2018 Wallenstam issues bonds for SEK 400 million Wallenstam has today carried out a bond issue of SEK 400 million. The loan runs for two years with a fixed interest rate of 0.68 percent. The bonds are unsecured. The bonds will be used for future investments and restructuring of the loan portfolio. The bonds will be listed on Nasdaq Stockholm AB. Svenska Handelsbanken have acted as issuing agent. The issue was carried out within the framework of the MTN program (Medium Term Notes), which was established on November 1, 2017 with the aim of creating a broader and more flexible supply of capital. The program has a framework amount of SEK 5 billion and provides the opportunity to issue bonds in the Swedish market. Svenska Handelsbanken is the lead bank, and Nordea Bank, Svenska Handelsbanken and Swedbank are participating as issuing agents for the MTN program. For further information, please contact: Susann Linde, CFO and Head of Investor Relations Wallenstam AB (publ), tel: +46 31 20 00 00 or +46 705 17 11 34 www.wallenstam.se
Cybercom Group AB (publ) P.O. Box 7574, SE-103 93 Stockholm, Sweden Tel +46 8 578 646 00 To the editor December 7, 2016 Alma Media has selected Cybercom as its Amazon Web Services (AWS) partner Alma Media Corporation has selected Cybercom's Passionate Support for AWS as the maintenance solution for its cloud platform. The agreement is valid until further notice and includes 24/7 on-call services, infrastructure and architecture design of AWS environments, and implementation. “Developing digital capabilities in media services is an ongoing and continuous process. Efficient and agile utilisation of cloud platforms opens up new opportunities for our media and service brands. Cybercom's cloud platform expertise is excellent and we trust their ability and their experience as an AWS support service provider,” says Simo Syrjänen, CTO, Alma Media. Alma Media is a media company focusing on the service business and journalistic content. The company's best-known brands are Kauppalehti, Talouselämä, Affärsvärlden, Iltalehti, Aamulehti, Etuovi.com and Monster. Alma Media builds sustainable growth for its customers by utilising the opportunities of digitality, including information services, system and expert services and advertising solutions. Alma Media's operations have in the recent years expanded from Finland to the Nordic countries, the Baltics, and Central Europe. “This agreement with Alma Media is the next step in the growth of our Passionate Support for AWS support service. The functionality of Cybercom's long-term client strategy and collaboration based on partnership played a key role in the agreement struck with Alma Media. Our collaboration is well established and we are now happy to take the next step in the support services for the AWS cloud platform,” says Veli-Matti Nurminen, Managing Director, Cybercom Finland. Amazon Web Services is one of Cybercom's key cloud partners. Cybercom is an AWS Advanced Consulting Partner and an official reseller in the public and private sectors. For further information, please contact: Simo Syrjänen, CTO, Alma Media Oyj +358 43 855 4455 Veli-Matti Nurminen, Managing Director, Cybercom Finland +358 50 385 9911 Kristina Cato, Head of IR- and Communications, Cybercom Group +46 70 864 47 02 About Cybercom Cybercom is an IT consultant that assists leading companies and organisations to benefit from the opportunities of the connected world. Each individual employee is a win for us. It is our employees who drive forward Cybercom’s development. Our consultants, and the solutions we create, take us all the way from public sector e-services in Sundsvall, Stockholm and Helsinki to operators and mobility in the Caribbean islands, via the UN Global Compact, driverless cars, national electronic identification, connected sewing machines and elevators. The company’s areas of expertise span the entire ecosystem of communications services and security. Cybercom’s domestic market is the Nordic region, and in addition the company offers global delivery capacity for local and international business. Cybercom was founded in 1995. Find out more at www.cybercom.com.
Press release March 20, 2015 Gothenburg XVIVO granted method patent for STEEN Solution™ in USA The United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) has approved a third patent in the “Preservation and evaluation solution” family. This means that STEEN Solution™ and XPS™ have increased patent protection in the USA but also that XVIVO has patent protection for use of a wide variety of alternative perfusion solutions for organ perfusion and evaluation. The patent is valid until the end of 2022. XVIVO Perfusion already has an approved product patent for STEEN Solution™ and a broader method patent in the USA. The patent that has now been approved extends XVIVO’s patent protection for the use of alternative solutions for perfusion and evaluation of organs before transplantation. The company’s products STEEN Solution™, XPS™ and the accompanying single-use products have been approved by the FDA and are being launched in the USA. The American market is the largest in the world and accounts for just over 40 percent of the number of lung transplants performed. “Extended patent protection for STEEN Solution™ in the American market is important in protecting the intangible assets we have built up over many years in the USA, which is the absolute largest market for lung transplantation in the world. The method patent for STEEN Solution™ means that XVIVO strengthens its competitive position in the American market regarding warm perfusion and evaluation of organs outside the body,” says Dr Magnus Nilsson, CEO of XVIVO Perfusion AB. March 20, 2015 Gothenburg XVIVO Perfusion AB (publ) Magnus Nilsson CEO For further information, please contact Christoffer Rosenblad, CFO, +46 31-788 21 59, christoffer.rosenblad@xvivoperfusion.com XVIVO Perfusion AB is a medical technology company which develops solutions and systems for assessing and preserving organs outside the body and for selecting usable organs and maintaining them in optimal condition pending transplantation. The company is headquartered in Gothenburg, Sweden, and has one office in the USA. The XVIVO share is listed on NASDAQ OMX First North and has the ticker symbol XVIVO. More information can be found on the website www.xvivoperfusion.com. The Certified Adviser is Redeye, www.redeye.se. __________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ XVIVO Perfusion AB (publ), Box 53015, SE-400 14 Göteborg. Corporate identity number 556561-0424. Tel: +46 31 788 21 50. Fax: +46 31 788 21 69. E-mail: info@xvivoperfusion.com. Website: www.xvivoperfusion.com The information was submitted for publication on March 20, 2015 at 8:30 a.m. This is a translation of the Swedish version of the press release. When in doubt, the Swedish wording prevails.
AAK AB (publ.) Phone +46 40 627 83 00 info@aak.com 556669-2850 Skrivaregatan 9 Fax +46 40 627 83 11 www.aak.com SE556669285001 SE-215 32 Malmö Registered office: Malmö SWEDEN February 3, 2017 Press release AAK’s Interim report for the fourth quarter and Year-end report 2016 – Again all-time high operating profit • Operating profit, excluding non-recurring income of SEK 15 million, reached SEK 435 million (388), an improvement of 12 percent and an all-time high record. This despite a negative currency translation impact of SEK 8 million, mainly related to Food Ingredients. • Total volumes continued to grow nicely and were up 7 percent (6). Organic volume growth was 2 percent (1). The demand for specialty and semi-specialty products continued to be strong, generating organic volume growth of 5 percent (0). • Food Ingredients improved by 8 percent, reaching SEK 278 million (257). The picture between the different segments was mixed, but with several showing very good development: o The Dairy segment continued the trend from previous quarters and reported solid organic volume growth. o The Bakery segment had another challenging quarter, particularly in Western Europe. In other regions we are starting to see some improvements. o Special Nutrition reported double-digit volume growth. This was driven by an extraordinary volume growth for our Infant Nutrition product range Akonino®. o Foodservice reported organic volume growth with good development particularly in the UK and the US. • Chocolate & Confectionery Fats reported a result of SEK 169 million (135), an improvement of 25 percent. o Organic volume growth in the quarter was 16 percent (negative 2). o Continued organic volume growth for both high-end and low-end products. o After two years of severely deteriorating market conditions in Russia and Ukraine, the strong growth during the first three quarters continued, but still from low levels. • Technical Products & Feed reached SEK 24 million (32). Last year’s corresponding quarter was exceptionally strong for the fatty acids business. Pressure from higher raw material prices had an unfavourable impact on operating profit. • Earnings per share increased by 18 percent, to SEK 6.69 (5.65). This was despite increased financial costs due to extended borrowings in high-interest rate countries (Brazil, China and India) and increased earnings in countries with high tax rates. • Operating cash flow including changes in working capital amounted to SEK 843 million (661). Cash flow from working capital was positive, amounting to SEK 426 million (292). The strong cash flow was due to increased accounts payables and reduced accounts receivables, this despite organic volume growth. Increased raw material prices and working capital tied up for the greenfield investments continued to impact negatively.AAK AB (publ.) Phone +46 40 627 83 00 info@aak.com 556669-2850 Skrivaregatan 9 Fax +46 40 627 83 11 www.aak.com SE556669285001 SE-215 32 Malmö Registered office: Malmö SWEDEN • Calculated on a rolling 12 months basis, Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) was 15.8 percent (15.7 at December 31, 2015). • The greenfield project in Brazil is progressing according to plan and volumes are increasing quarter by quarter. • Our China greenfield project also continues according to plan. The first limited volumes will be delivered during the first quarter 2017. To be able to deliver the whole product range from the factories, the gradual ramp-ups will continue during 2017. • AAK’s company program for 2014–2016, “AAKtion”, has been completed during the quarter. The overall implementation of the program has progressed well. • The new company program, The AAK Way, will guide us up through 2019. Our key focus with the program is to enable the company to continue to deliver strong organic growth. This will be achieved by focusing on five priority areas: Go to Market, Operational Excellence, Special Focus Areas, Innovation and People. • In parallel to the new company program we have established a new management ambition for the coming years. We expect, on average, a 10 percent year-on-year improvement in operating profit which will support a good and consistent improvement in earnings per share. • Proposed dividend of SEK 8.75 (7.75), an increase by SEK 1.00 or 13 percent. Concluding remarks: “Based on AAK’s customer value propositions for health and reduced costs, and our customer product co-development and solutions approach, we continue to remain prudently optimistic about the future. The main drivers are the continued positive underlying development in Food Ingredients and the continued improvement in Chocolate & Confectionery Fats.” The Interim report for the fourth quarter and Year-end report 2016 will be presented today, February 3, 2017 at 1 p.m. CET at a Press & Analyst telephone conference. For participation, please see instructions under the Investor tab at the AAK website, www.aak.com. For further information, please contact: Fredrik Nilsson CFO Mobile: +46 708 95 22 21 E-mail: fredrik.nilsson@aak.com This information is information that AAK AB (publ.) is obliged to make public pursuant to the EU Market Abuse Regulation and the Securities Markets Act. The information was submitted for publication, through the agency of the contact person set out above, at 07:50 a.m. CET on February 3, 2017. AAK is a leading provider of value-adding vegetable oils & fats. Our expertise in oils & fats within food applications, our wide range of raw materials and our broad process capabilities enable us to develop innovative and value-adding solutions across many industries – Chocolate & Confectionery, Bakery, Dairy, Infant Nutrition, Foodservice, Personal Care, and more. AAK’s proven expertise is based on more than 140 years of experience within oils & fats. Our unique co-development approach brings our customers’ skills and know-how together with our own capabilities and mindset for lasting results. Listed on the NASDAQ OMX Stockholm and with our headquarters in Malmö, Sweden, AAK has 20 different production facilities, sales offices in more than 25 countries and more than 2,800 employees. We are AAK – The Co-Development Company.
Press Release 2015-12-07 13:00 (CET) Vitec Software Group AB (publ) is a software company that offers industry specific business applications on the Nordic market. The Company, with operations in Sweden, Norway, Finland and Denmark is growing in the mature part of the software industry by consolidating vertical software segments. Clients include facility management companies, construction and real estate companies, banks and insurance companies, utilities and energy traders, healthcare companies, car spare part dealers and newspaper companies. Vitec is listed on Nasdaq OMX Stockholm. Group turnover has an annual capacity of 630 million SEK and has approximately 440 employees. Vitec is listed on Nasdaq OMX Stockholm. www.vitecsoftware.com Address: Box 7965, S-907 19 Umeå, Sweden. Phone +46 90 15 49 00 Vitec acquires Nice Norwegian Insurance Computer Environment AS (Nice AS) Vitec Software Group AB (publ) has on December 7 agreed to acquire 100% of the Norwegian software company Nice AS, whose product is an industry-specific software for insurance companies in Norway, Denmark and Sweden. Sales for the financial year 2014 where 23.3 million NOK, with approximately 77 % of recurring revenues and an EBITDA of 2.3 million NOK. Payment by 25 MNOK at closing, of which 5 million NOK is compensation, NOK for NOK, for the excess liquidity. The acquisition is expected to directly result in increased earnings per share of Vitec. Consolidation takes place from December 1, 2015. Nice AS has since 1987 focused on the development, implementation and operation of fully integrated system solutions for insurance companies. The company's SaaS-based systems which was launched in 2011 is used by customers in Norway, Sweden and Denmark. The acquisition adds 13 new employees to the Vitec Group. For more information, please contact Lars Stenlund, CEO, Vitec Software Group AB (publ), mob: +46 70 659 49 39 Dag Ramberg, CEO, Nice AS, mob: +47 90 15 56 94 Disclaimer: Vitec Software Group AB (publ.) is to make the above information public pursuant to the Swedish Securities Market Act or the Swedish Financial Instruments Trading Act. The information will be made public at 13:00 CET on Monday, December 7, 2015.
ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB Press Release, 2017-07-05 Successful completion of Phase I and initiation of Phase IIa clinical trial of a universal malaria vaccine produced in ExpreS2 Horsholm, Denmark, July 5, 2017 – Today, ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB announces that the Jenner Institute of the University of Oxford, a licensee of the fully owned subsidiary ExpreS2ion Biotechnologies ApS (“ExpreS2ion”), initiates recruiting for a Phase IIa clinical trial following a successful Phase I safety study of its new blood stage malaria vaccine. The Phase IIa trial will assess safety, immunogenicity and efficacy of the blood-stage malaria vaccine, which is produced in ExpreS2ion’s proprietary platform, Expres2. Malaria is causing more than 400,000 deaths annually, and the vaccine addresses a global market estimated by The Boston Consulting Group to be in the size of up to $400M per year. New vaccine could provide universal protection against the most dangerous form of malaria The new P. falciparum malaria vaccine, RH5.1, which now enters a Phase IIa clinical trial is a novel, recombinant malaria antigen developed at the Jenner Institute based on recombinant RH5.1 protein produced in ExpreS2ion’s ExpreS2 platform. RH5.1 is part of a larger protein complex expressed by the malaria parasite during infection, helping it to invade red blood cells and causing the disease. The vaccine is intended to be a universal P. falciparum malaria vaccine, which works by blocking the red blood cell invasion and thus the progression of the disease. Successful phase I demonstrated safety The present study is funded by Leidos Inc (“Leidos”) as part of Leidos’ prime contract with the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) for the development and testing of malaria vaccines. The successfully completed part of the Phase I study assessed the safety of the vaccine and the immune response, as well as the optimal dosing regimen of the vaccine. Initiation of recruitment for phase IIa determining vaccine efficacy against malaria challenge The Phase IIa study will address how effective the vaccine is at preventing malaria. This is done by comparing individuals given the optimal dose of the vaccine to subjects who have not received the vaccine, when challenged with malaria parasites. The Phase IIa study is expected to run for at least one year. Malaria killed nearly half a million in 2015 Malaria is a major global health problem with 3.2 billion people living at risk of malaria infection. In 2015, malaria was thought to have caused 429,000 deaths, most of which (70%) occurred in children under five years old (WHO, 2016, http://www.who.int/malaria/media/world-malaria-report-2016/en/). Currently, there is no generally approved vaccine available for malaria, which means that there is a great need for a safe, effective malaria vaccine. Despite the urgent medical need for an effective malaria vaccine, no vaccine has yet achieved satisfactory protection against the disease. In a malaria market assessment study by the Boston Consulting Group sponsored by the Malaria Vaccine Initiative, the malaria vaccine demand was estimated to be translated into a global market value of up to $400M per year. CEO Dr. Steen Klysner comments “We are very pleased to note that the blood stage malaria vaccine has passed the Phase I safety study and will now proceed into the planned Phase II clinical efficacy study. We are proud of having delivered enabling technology for this exciting project and we now look forward to see the results which are expected in late 2018.”ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB Press Release, 2017-07-05 About the Jenner Institute and the University of Oxford The Jenner Institute is a research partnership between the University of Oxford and the Pirbright Institute focused on the development of vaccines against major global diseases. The University of Oxford’s Medical Sciences Division is one of the largest biomedical research centres in Europe. The University is rated as the best in the world and it has one of the largest clinical trial portfolios in the UK and great expertise in taking discoveries from the laboratory into the clinic. Certified Advisor Sedermera Fondkommission is appointed as Certified Adviser for ExpreS2ion. For further information, please contact: ExpreS2ion Biotechnologies, Dr. Steen Klysner, CEO Telephone: +45 2062 9908 E-mail: sk@expres2ionbio.com This press release contains information that ExpreS2ion is obligated to make public pursuant to the EU Market Abuse Regulation. The information was submitted for publication through the agency of the contact person set out above on July 5, 2017. About ExpreS2ion ExpreS2ion Biotechnologies ApS, is a fully owned Danish subsidiary of ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB with company register number 559033-3729. The subsidiary has developed a unique platform technology, ExpreS2, enabling cost effective development and robust production of complex proteins for new vaccines and diagnostics for e.g. Malaria and Zika. Since founded in 2010, the company has used its patented ExpreS2 platform to produce more than 200 proteins in collaborations with research institutions and biopharmaceutical companies, with a superior efficiency and success rate.
Press release Press release April 4, 2017 Isofol’s Chairman of the Board acquires shares in the company Isofol Medical AB (publ) announces that its Chairman of the Board, Jan-­‐Eric Österlund, now acquired 15,000 shares in Isofol to a value of circa SEK 430 thousand after the share was listed today at Nasdaq First North Premier. Jan-­‐Eric Österlund thereby increased his ownership in Isofol to 640,000 shares. For additional information, please contact: Anders Rabbe, Managing Director, Isofol Mob: +46 70 764 65 00 Email: anders.rabbe@isofolmedical.com Jan-­‐Eric Österlund, Executive Chairman, Isofol Mob: +44 77 853 68 155 Email: jan-­‐eric@osterlund.co.uk About Isofol Medical AB (publ) Isofol is a clinical stage oncology company developing Modufolin® as a first-­‐line treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer and as a rescue drug after high-­‐dose methotrexate treatment in osteosarcoma. Isofol aims to replace the existing folate-­‐based compounds leucovorin and levoleucovorin, which today are considered the standard treatment within these indications. Through an exclusive license agreement, Isofol Medical holds all rights to commercialising Modufolin® globally for cancer treatment with access to the unique patented production process and the production capabilities of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany. About Modufolin® Modufolin® (active ingredient [6R]-­‐5,10-­‐methylenetetrahydrofolate), is a novel folate-­‐based compound developed to increase the efficacy and reduce the side effects of antimetabolites used in cancer treatment. It is the key active metabolite of the widely used folate-­‐based drugs leucovorin and levoleucovorin, and therefore does not require metabolic activation. This makes Modufolin® suitable for all patients irrespective of their genetical capacity to activate folates, and it is currently being evaluated in two clinical Phase II studies. Third most common cancer Colorectal cancer is the third most common cancer, affecting both men and women, and is the third leading cause of cancer-­‐related death. Approximately 1.35 million people per year are diagnosed with the disease worldwide. In the US, Western Europe and Japan, where an estimated 550,000 patients are diagnosed with colorectal cancer, about 365,000 patients annually receive a treatment regimen including 5-­‐FU and the folate leucovorin or levoleucovorin, which Isofol is aiming to replace with Modufolin®.
Gothenburg, 2017-10-02 SeaTwirl starts Norwegian affiliate Wind power company SeaTwirl starts an affiliate in Norway. “We see a lot of potential in being in Norway. Other than potentially being one of our first markets, they have ready test sites for floating offshore wind power that we want to evaluate further. There is also a lot of knowhow about offshore structures from the oil and gas industry that we can tap in to”, says Gabriel Strängberg, CEO of SeaTwirl. For more information, please contact: Gabriel Strängberg, CEO Phone: +46 70 480 55 29 E-mail: gabriel.strangberg@seatwirl.com Roger Cederberg, Chairman Phone: +46 73 363 10 75 E-mail: roger.cederberg@ventures.gu.se Om SeaTwirl SeaTwirl AB is a Swedish development stage wind power company with the vision to become a leading player in the new and fast growing market for floating offshore wind power. SeaTwirl’s unique floating wind turbine is simple and robust in its design with few moving parts. That suits the conditions at sea and minimizes the need for maintenance, which leads to less downtime and more uptime. The company’s first prototype was installed at sea in 2015. Development is now ongoing of the next full size unit with a 1MW installed turbine effect. Read more at: www.SeaTwirl.com The company’s Certified Adviser is Mangold Fondkommission AB that can be reached at: +46 8 5030 1550.
Press release Östersund 2017-02-01, 12:00 Diös Fastigheter owns and develops both commercial and residential properties in prioritized growth areas in northern Sweden. With a market value of SEK 17.7 billion, a portfolio of 345 properties and a lettable area of 1.567 sq., our vision is to be the most active and sought-after landlord in our market. The properties are located from Borlänge to Luleå with its head office in Östersund. The company has since 2005 had a continuous growth in value in the property portfolio and the share is listed on Nasdaq OMX Stockholm, Mid Cap. Learn more about Diös on www.dios.se Diös has today taken over possession of 32 properties in Umeå, Luleå and Sundsvall to the value of SEK 4.5 billion On November 21, 2016 Diös signed an agreement to acquire 32 properties from Castellum. The transaction was completed today and Diös has now taken over possession of the properties. The acquisition increases the total property value of approximately 34 percent and will after the transaction amount to around SEK 18 billion. - I'm incredibly happy and pleased that we took the opportunity to acquire this high-quality property portfolio. It is absolutely the right properties in absolutely the right locations that complement our existing portfolio in a very good way. We see both economies of scale and revenue synergies of the acquisition, and we have created opportunities to improve our tenant offering, says Knut Rost, CEO Diös. The acquisition will strengthen cash flow and make Diös to a larger company. The influence of the city center retail trade and urban development increases and the possibility of cooperation and collaboration with the tenants, municipalities and suppliers will be greater. The financing was conducted partly through a rights issue of approximately SEK 1.8 billion and partly through new credit facilities of approximately SEK 2.7 billion. The financing structure strengthens equity ratio, while the loan-to-value is unchanged. - The deal takes Diös to a new level and provide a more stable foundation to build from. Through effective management, active property development and transactions, we continue creating profitable growth and value for our shareholders, says Knut. For further information, please contact: Knut Rost, CEO Diös Fastigheter Phone: +46 (0)10-470 95 01 E-mail: knut.rost@dios.se Rolf Larsson, CFO Diös Fastigheter Telefon: +46 (0)10-470 95 03 E-mail: rolf.larsson@dios.se
Kista November 16, 2015 Fully integrated WoodRoll® demonstration plant Cortus Energy has run operational tests with a fully integrated WoodRoll® at its demonstration plant in Köping (Sweden). The test campaign has confirmed the WoodRoll® technology in all aspects as well as the full integration of an uninterrupted flow from wet biomass to delivery of a clean and energy-rich syngas. Cortus Energy develops and markets the unique WoodRoll® technology for gasification of biomass in a new innovative setup that results in the number of unique advantages over all other existing gasification technologies. With the patented WoodRoll® technology Cortus Energy offer cost-effective green energy gas solutions for: power, industrial and transport applications. During 2015 the WoodRoll® testing plant in Köping has been rebuilt and upgraded to a fully integrated process flow. The original facility, where the sub-steps in the process have been run in sequence, has now been linked together into a fully integrated process. After the summer, the plant has been tested by the step by step according to a fixed schedule. All sub- functions and their integration has been verified. Defects and deficiencies have been remedied as occurred. With regards to the process technology, safety features, automation and sophisticated materials the facility in Köping is perhaps, nowadays, the most advanced plant for gasification of biomass that exists. After months of work, the overall objective to operate a fully integrated WoodRoll® process from wet biomass into a clean and energy-rich syngas, in a continuous and uninterrupted flow was completed during the previous week. The successful test campaign is now closed and the results shall be evaluated to be able to capture experiences and new knowledge for the ongoing design of the first commercial WoodRoll® plant which will have a capacity of 6 MW syngas. "We are very pleased to now also in practical tests have confirmed the full integrated feature of our unique gasification technology. The results strengthen us in our ongoing efforts to commercialize the WoodRoll technology. "Says Rolf Ljunggren, CEO Cortus Energy. For further information, please contact: Rolf Ljunggren, CEO Tel: +46 (0) 8 588 866 30 +46 (0) 8 588 866 30 www.cortusenergy.com About Cortus Energy Cortus Energy provides cost-effective green energy gas solutions for power, industrial andtransport applications based on its patented WoodRoll® technology. WoodRoll® have large feedstock flexibility, which means that the process can utilize low-grade renewable feedstock without compromising the process performance. Cortus Energy's shares are traded on NASDAQ OMX First North.
Smart Eye AB, Första Långgatan 28B, 413 27 Gothenburg, Sweden Tel: + 46 31 60 61 60 Fax: +46 31 701 05 15 E-mail: info@smarteye.se Gothenburg, January 23, 2018 Press release Smart Eye completes a directed share issue of MSEK 43,6 The board of Directors of Smart Eye AB (“Smart Eye” or the “Company”) has, based on the authorization granted by the annual general meeting on 27 April 2017, resolved to carry out a directed share issue of 991,089 new shares in the Company with deviation from the shareholders’ pre‐ emptive rights. The share issue was subscribed by institutional and private investors. The subscription price amounted to SEK 44,0 per share. In order to strengthen the Company’s financial position and utilize growth opportunities, the board has decided to carry through a directed share issue of MSEK 43,6. The subscription price in the share issue amounted to SEK 44,0 per share, which corresponds to a discount of 6,4 percent to the last five trading days’ volume‐weighted average share price. There was a great interest in the directed share issue that was carried out through a so‐called accelerated book‐building process facilitated by Erik Penser Bank. The share issue was subscribed by Handelsbanken Fonder, Aktia Kapitalförvaltning and a number of private investors. “The global car industry is at an exciting stage, there is a rapid development towards self‐driving cars with increasingly advanced driver monitoring systems. Through a total of 16 design‐wins from leading vehicle manufacturers, Smart Eye has taken an industry‐leading position. The directed share issue enables a continued offensive business strategy with the ambition to achieve further design‐ wins and establish our technology in even more car models within the premium‐class segment. We are experiencing a rapidly growing interest from the Chinese market, but also greater demand than anticipated from Japan. Throughout the global automotive industry, there are ongoing procurements for the next generation’s driver monitoring systems. We are positioning ourselves for continued successes,” says Martin Krantz, CEO of Smart Eye. The share issue entails a dilution effect of approximately 9.1 percent on the total number of shares after the share issue. In order to facilitate the delivery of shares to the investors in the new issue, the Company’s largest shareholder Fouriertransform, has undertaken to lend 991,089 shares to the investment bank Erik Penser Bankaktiebolag. The shares will be returned upon registration of the share issue with the Swedish Companies Registration Office. In conjunction with the share issue, Erik Penser Bankaktiebolag has been the financial advisor. For more information Martin Krantz, CEO Smart Eye AB Phone: +46 70‐329 26 98 Email: martin.krantz@smarteye.se About Smart Eye Smart Eye develops and markets eye tracking systems that can measure and calculate a person's gaze. Today the company has two business areas: Research Instruments and Applied Solutions. Within Research Instruments, Smart Eye provides advanced eye tracking systems to measure and analyse human behaviour. Within Applied Solutions, Smart Eye provides eye tracking software for integration in vehicles. Smart Eye was founded in 1999, since when it has become established as one of the leading players for eye tracking analysis of human behaviour. This is based on advanced technical software for eye tracking systems, as well as longstanding experience in this industry. From an early stage, Smart Eye has focused on developing eye tracking for the automotive industry and today is one of the few companies in the world with eye tracking systems for integration in vehicles that live Smart Eye AB, Första Långgatan 28B, 413 27 Gothenburg, Sweden Tel: + 46 31 60 61 60 Fax: +46 31 701 05 15 E-mail: info@smarteye.se up to the extensive requirements set by the automotive industry. Smart Eye currently has 16 design wins concerning serial delivery for passenger vehicles from four global automotive Groups. http://corp.smarteye.se Smart Eye is listed on First North. Erik Penser is Certified Adviser and can be reached at +46‐8‐463 8000. This information is information that Smart Eye AB (publ) is obliged to make public pursuant to the EU Market Abuse Regulation. The information was submitted for publication, through the agency of the contact person set out above, at January 23, 2018 at 08:00 CET.
Press release NOT FOR RELEASE, PUBLICATION OR DISTRIBUTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART, DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY, IN THE UNITED STATES, AUSTRALIA, CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, HONG KONG, JAPAN OR ANY OTHER JURISDICTION WHERE SUCH RELEASE, PUBLICATION OR DISTRIBUTION WOULD BE UNLAWFUL OR WOULD REQUIRE REGISTRATION OR ANY OTHER MEASURES. Press release May 5, 2017 Pareto Securities has notified Isofol Medical AB (publ) (“Isofol” or the “Company”) that stabilisation measures regarding the Company’s shares have been taken In connection with the offering to acquire newly issued shares in Isofol and the listing on Nasdaq First North Premier (the “Offering”), Pareto Securities, in its capacity as stabilisation manager, may carry out transactions aimed at supporting the market price of the Company’s shares at a level higher than what might otherwise have prevailed in the market. Such stabilization transactions may be effected on any securities market, over- the-counter (OTC) market or otherwise, at any time during the period starting on the date of commencement of trading in the Company’s shares on Nasdaq First North Premier and ending 30 calendar days thereafter. However, Pareto Securities has no obligation to undertake any stabilization. Stabilization, may be discontinued at any time and without prior notice. Pareto Securities has announced that stailisation measures have been taken (in accordance with Article 3.2(d) of the EU Market Abuse Regulation) on Nasdaq First North Permier in accordance with what is set out below. Stabilisation information Issuer: Isofol Medical AB (publ) Security: Shares (SE0009581051) Offering size (shares): 14,828,000 Over-allotment option (shares): 1,482,800 Offering price (SEK): 29.00 Ticker: ISOFOL Stabilisation manager: Pareto Securities Stabilisation transactions Date Quantity (# shares) Price (high) Price (low) Price (average) Currency Market place 2017-04-26 5,800 23.6 23.0 23.3 SEK Nasdaq First North Premier 2017-04-27 8,574 24.5 23.5 24.5 SEK Nasdaq First North Premier Pareto Securities has conducted stabilization transactions comprising 1,482,800 shares as per 2017-04-27, including the previously announced stabilisation transactions. The stabilisation period has thus been terminated and no further stabilisation transactions will be conducted. Furthermore, Pareto Securities will not use the Over-allotment Option described below. Thus, Isofol will not issue any further shares in connection with the Offering and no further proceeds will be transferred to the Company. The total number of outstanding shares after the Offering amounts to 31,604,500. Over-allotment Option In order to cover any over-allotment in connection with the Offering the Company has, at the request of Pareto Securities, undertaken to issue a maximum of 1,482,800 additional newly issued shares, corresponding to a maximum of 10 percent of the number of shares in the Offering. The Over-allotment Option can be fully or partly exercised within 30 calendar days from the first day of trading of the Company’s shares.For additional information, please contact: Anders Rabbe, Managing Director, Isofol Mob: +46 70 764 65 00 Email: anders.rabbe@isofolmedical.com Jan-Eric Österlund, Executive Chairman, Isofol Mob: +44 77 853 68 155 Email: jan-eric@osterlund.co.uk About Isofol Medical AB (publ) Isofol is a clinical stage oncology company developing Modufolin® as a first-line treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer and as a rescue drug after high-dose methotrexate treatment in osteosarcoma. Isofol aims to replace the existing folate-based compounds leucovorin and levoleucovorin, which today are considered the standard treatment within these indications. Through an exclusive license agreement, Isofol Medical holds all rights to commercialising Modufolin® globally for cancer treatment with access to the unique patented production process and the production capabilities of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany. About Modufolin® Modufolin® (active ingredient [6R]-5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate), is a novel folate-based compound developed to increase the efficacy and reduce the side effects of antimetabolites used in cancer treatment. It is the key active metabolite of the widely used folate-based drugs leucovorin and levoleucovorin, and therefore does not require metabolic activation. This makes Modufolin® suitable for all patients irrespective of their genetical capacity to activate folates, and it is currently being evaluated in two clinical Phase II studies. Third most common cancer Colorectal cancer is the third most common cancer, affecting both men and women, and is the third leading cause of cancer-related death. Approximately 1.35 million people per year are diagnosed with the disease worldwide. In the US, Western Europe and Japan, where an estimated 550,000 patients are diagnosed with colorectal cancer, about 365,000 patients annually receive a treatment regimen including 5-FU and the folate leucovorin or levoleucovorin, which Isofol is aiming to replace with Modufolin®. Important information This announcement is not and does not form a part of any offer for sale of securities. Copies of this announcement are not being made and may not be distributed or sent into the United States, Australia, Canada, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Japan or any other jurisdiction in which such distribution would be unlawful or would require registration or other measures. The securities referred to in this announcement have not been and will not be registered under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and accordingly may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act and in accordance with applicable U.S. state securities laws. The Company does not intend to register any offering in the United States or to conduct a public offering of securities in the United States. Any Offering of securities referred to in this announcement will only be made by means of a prospectus. This announcement is not a prospectus for the purposes of Directive 2003/71/EC (together with any applicable implementing measures in any Member State, the “Prospectus Directive”). Investors should not invest in any securities referred to in this announcement except on the basis of information contained in the aforementioned prospectus. In any EEA Member State, other than Sweden that has implemented the Prospectus Directive, this communication is only addressed to and is only directed at qualified investors in that Member State within the meaning of the Prospectus Directive, i.e., only to investors who can receive the offer without an approved prospectus in such EEA Member State. This communication is only being distributed to and is only directed at persons in the United Kingdom that are (i) investment professionals falling within Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005, as amended (the “Order”) or (ii) high net worth entities, and other persons to whom this announcement may lawfully be communicated, falling within Article 49(2)(a) to (d) of the Order (all such persons together being referred to as “Relevant Persons”). This communication must not be acted on or relied on by persons who are not Relevant Persons. Any investment or investment activity to which this communication relates is available only to Relevant Persons and will be engaged in only with Relevant Persons. Persons distributing this communication must satisfy themselves that it is lawful to do so.Matters discussed in this announcement may constitute forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical facts and may be identified by words such as “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “intends,” “estimate,” “will,” “may,” "continue," “should” and similar expressions. The forward-looking statements in this release are based upon various assumptions, many of which are based, in turn, upon further assumptions. Although the Company believes that these assumptions were reasonable when made, these assumptions are inherently subject to significant known and unknown risks, uncertainties, contingencies and other important factors which are difficult or impossible to predict and are beyond its control. Such risks, uncertainties, contingencies and other important factors could cause actual events to differ materially from the expectations expressed or implied in this release by such forward-looking statements. The information, opinions and forward-looking statements contained in this announcement speak only as at its date, and are subject to change without notice.
AAK AB (publ.) Phone +46 40 627 83 00 info@aak.com 556669-2850 Jungmansgatan 12 Fax +46 40 627 83 11 www.aak.com SE556669285001 SE-211 19 Malmö Registered office: Malmö SWEDEN September 1, 2015 Press release AAK launches TROPICAO™, a revolutionary chocolate solution AAK, a leading provider of value-adding vegetable oils and fats, has today launched TROPICAO™, the company’s latest innovation within business area Chocolate & Confectionery Fats. This innovation, which is the first of its kind, has been developed for hot climate markets such as Latin America, Asia and the Middle East. Despite chocolate consumption being on the rise in these markets chocolate manufacturers face significant challenges as the properties of chocolate change in hot climates. Heat-related bloom, which gives the chocolate an undesirable white surface and a sandy, dry texture, is cited as the most frequent reason for chocolate quality complaints in hot climates. With AAK’s TROPICAO™, it is now possible for chocolate manufacturers to produce bloom-stable chocolate and still maintain the chocolate’s sensorial properties. “It has been proven that chocolate with TROPICAO™ will maintain a non-bloom appearance as well as its sensory attributes when exposed to temperatures up to 37°C (98.6°F)”, says René Schou, Marketing Director, Chocolate & Confectionery Fats. Moreover, AAK’s TROPICAO™, which is immediately available, is compatible with all chocolate process lines and can be easily integrated into any production set-up. “We’re extremely proud to present this revolutionary chocolate solution and product to our customers and to add it to our extensive portfolio of solutions for the Chocolate & Confectionery industry”, says Arne Frank, CEO, AAK. “We believe this could be the largest value-adding novelty in our industry since many years.” For further information, please contact: Fredrik Nilsson René Schou CFO Marketing Director, Chocolate & Confectionery Fats Phone: +46 40 627 83 34 Phone: +45 8730 6263 Mobile: +46 708 95 22 21 Mobile: +45 2166 6781 The information is that which AAK AB (publ.) is obliged to publish under the provisions of the Stock Exchange and Clearing Operations Act and/or the Trading in Financial Instruments Act. The information was released to the media for publication on September 1, 2015 at 09:00 a.m. CET. AAK is a leading provider of value-adding vegetable oils & fats. Our expertise in oils & fats within food applications, our wide range of raw materials and our broad process capabilities enable us to develop innovative and value-adding solutions across many industries – Chocolate & Confectionery, Bakery, Dairy, Infant Nutrition, Food Service, Personal Care, and more. AAK’s proven expertise is based on more than 100 years of experience within oils & fats. Our unique co-development approach brings our customers’ skills and know-how together with our own capabilities and mindset for lasting results. Listed on the NASDAQ OMX Stockholm and with our headquarters in Malmö, Sweden, AAK has 17 different production facilities, sales offices in more than 25 countries and more than 2,500 employees. We are AAK – The Co-Development Company.
Press release October 25, 2013 Gothenburg Dr. Joel Cooper accepted to be new Medical Advisor to XVIVO perfusion Dr. Joel Cooper became the first surgeon in the world to complete the first successful lung transplant. Dr. Cooper, who recently accepted an appointment to become the Medical Advisor to XVIVO Perfusion, is an internationally recognized surgeon and scientist renowned for his pioneering techniques and progress in the treatment of lung diseases. This year, the 6 th of November, the medical field of transplantation celebrates the 30 th anniversary of the first successful lung transplantation performed by Dr. Cooper and his surgical team at the University of Toronto. In 1983, November 7, the world´s first successful single-lung transplant operation was performed at Toronto General Hospital by a team led by Dr. Joel Cooper. The patient lived an active life for 6 years before passing away from kidney failure at the age of 64. Some years later Dr. Cooper also performed the world´s first successful clinical double lung transplants in St Louis, Missouri, USA. Dr. Cooper, who recently accepted an appointment to be the Medical Advisor to XVIVO Perfusion, is an internationally recognized surgeon and scientist who has dedicated his time and work in experimental and clinical lung transplantation. He is known for his pioneering techniques and has received numerous honors and prestigious awards over the years. Dr. Cooper is member of editorial boards, author and coauthor of more than 400 peer-reviewed scientific articles. Besides lung transplantation, Dr Cooper’s main clinical interests include general thoracic surgery, lung volume reduction surgery for emphysema, myasthenia gravis, gastro esophageal reflux, and esophageal cancer. Dr. Cooper recently stepped down from his position as the Chief of the Division of Thoracic Surgery at UPHS, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA. Prior to Dr Cooper´s position at UPHS, Dr. Cooper served as the Professor of Surgery and Chief of the Division of Cardiothoracic Surgery at Washington University and Barnes-Jewish Hospital in St. Louis and before that as Surgical Director of the lung transplant group at Toronto General Hospital. Dr. Cooper will be working as Medical Advisor for XVIVO, specifically in Research and Development for new products and solutions in lung transplantation. “We are very excited that Dr. Cooper accepted the position of Medical Advisor for XVIVO. Dr. Cooper’s pioneering work in developing clinical lung transplantation to what it is today was indeed ground breaking. Dr. Cooper’s work has always been in the forefront both in terms of basic and clinical research and development and many of today’s leaders have been fostered under his supervision. Since Dr. Cooper has great knowledge, experience and contacts in the field of thoracic surgery we are very excited to have the opportunity to develop a close relationship with him and are certain that it will help XVIVO to further develop the company’s core technology – Ex Vivo perfusion of organs at normothermic temperatures.” says Dr. Magnus Nilsson, CEO, XVIVO Perfusion. October 25, 2013 Gothenburg XVIVO Perfusion AB (publ) For further information, please contact Christoffer Rosenblad, CFO, +46 31-788 21 59, christoffer.rosenblad@xvivoperfusion.com _______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ XVIVO Perfusion AB is a medical technology company which develops solutions and systems for assessing and preserving organs outside the body and for selecting usable organs and maintaining them in optimal condition pending transplantation. The company is headquartered in Gothenburg, Sweden, and has one office in the USA. The Xvivo share is listed on NASDAQ OMX First North and has the ticker symbol XVIVO. More information can be found on the website www.xvivoperfusion.com. The Certified Adviser is Redeye, www.redeye.se. _______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ XVIVO Perfusion AB (publ), Box 53015, SE-400 14 Göteborg. Corporate identity number 556561-0424. Tel: +46 31 788 21 50. Fax: +46 31 788 21 69. E-mail: info@xvivoperfusion.com. Website: www.xvivoperfusion.com XVIVO Perfusion is required to publish the information in this press release in accordance with the Swedish Securities Market Act and/or the Financial Instruments Trading Act. The information was submitted for publication on October 25, 2013 at 10:30 a.m. This is a translation of the Swedish version of the press release. When in doubt, the Swedish wording prevails.
Smart Eye AB, Första Långgatan 28B, 413 27 Gothenburg, Sweden Tel: + 46 31 60 61 60 Fax: +46 31 701 05 15 E-mail: info@smarteye.se Gothenburg, December 4, 2017 Press release 13 new design wins, referring to all car models on a new platform Smart Eye has, together with a leading Tier 1‐supplier, been selected as a supplier of second‐ generation’s eye‐tracking to a European premium vehicle manufacturer. This is the first time ever that eye‐tracking software is being procured for all car models of a production platform at the same time. That's why the number of design wins becomes so high, 13. In total, Smart Eye has now received 16 design wins, of which 14 in 2017. The launching plan for the now procured car models will start in mid‐2019 and thereafter run according to the car manufacturers regular launch plan. This completed procurement is one in the line of several of of now ongoing international procurements where global vehicle manufacturers are establishing supplier relationships for the first and second generation of driver monitoring systems. Smart Eye is well positioned for continued success in ongoing and upcoming procurements. "We are both proud and honored by the fact that despite tough competition we have been chosen to deliver the next generation eye‐tracking system for passenger cars. It is also a milestone for us to become a supplier to a car manufacturer outside Germany. It is our system's reliability and technical height, combined with our experience as a supplier of the first‐generation eyetracking system to demanding German manufacturers, which has enabled us to qualify as a credible supplier of yet more complex driver assistance systems for this new customer. We clearly see the challenges and will face it with humble anticipation, bringing all our experience from existing car programs to the new platform. The fact that an entire car program is procured at the same time, we also see as a sign of that the market is getting more mature. There are long‐standing plans for driver monitoring cameras to be included in the criteria for the grades awarded by Euro NCAP, which thereby support the thesis that driver monitoring cameras will be as obvious as seat belts and airbags in cars in the future," says Martin Krantz, CEO of Smart Eye AB. The procured eye‐tracking system is the first procured for what is commonly referred to as the second‐generation driver monitoring cameras, which compared to the first generation means higher camera resolution, more powerful computing platform, improved performance and support for more features. In addition to supporting autonomous driving, the eye‐tracking system can also be used to enhance the user experience through a more adaptive and intuitive user interface. Unlike the first‐ generation eye‐tracking systems, which is basically limited to ensuring that the driver is not drowsy or asleep, the second generation systems can help maneuver the car’s internal functions. For instance, it will be possible for the driver to with the help of the gaze and different combinations of gestures, touch or voice, raising the volume or maneuvering between the car's menus and apps. For more information Martin Krantz, CEO Smart Eye AB Phone: +46 70‐329 26 98 Email: martin.krantz@smarteye.se About Smart Eye Smart Eye develops and markets eye tracking systems that can measure and calculate a person's gaze. Today the company has two business areas: Research Instruments and Applied Solutions. Within Research Instruments, Smart Eye provides advanced eye tracking systems to measure and analyse human behaviour. Within Applied Solutions, Smart Eye provides eye tracking software for integration in vehicles. Smart Eye AB, Första Långgatan 28B, 413 27 Gothenburg, Sweden Tel: + 46 31 60 61 60 Fax: +46 31 701 05 15 E-mail: info@smarteye.se Smart Eye was founded in 1999, since when it has become established as one of the leading players for eye tracking analysis of human behaviour. This is based on advanced technical software for eye tracking systems, as well as longstanding experience in this industry. From an early stage, Smart Eye has focused on developing eye tracking for the automotive industry and today is one of the few companies in the world with eye tracking systems for integration in vehicles that live up to the extensive requirements set by the automotive industry. Smart Eye currently has 16 design wins concerning serial delivery for passenger vehicles from four global automotive Groups. http://corp.smarteye.se Smart Eye is listed on First North. Erik Penser is Certified Adviser and can be reached at +46‐8‐463 8000. This information is information that Smart Eye AB (publ) is obliged to make public pursuant to the EU Market Abuse Regulation. The information was submitted for publication, through the agency of the contact person set out above, at December 4, 2017 at 08:00 CET.
P R E S S R E L E A S E LUND, FEBRUARY 17th 2016 Page 1 of 2 Precise Biometrics signs license agreement with Fingerprint Cards for smart cards Precise Biometrics, the leader in fingerprint software, expands the licensing agreement with Fingerprint Cards to include Precise BioMatch™ Embedded for smart cards. The expanded license agreement will generate royalty revenue based on Fingerprint Cards' sales of fingerprint sensors for smart cards that use Precise BioMatch Embedded. Royalty revenues are volume dependant and cannot be forecasted at this point. "There is a great interest to integrate fingerprint technology in new product areas. The expanded agreement with Fingerprint Cards – the largest sensor manufacturer – confirms our position as the leading supplier of fingerprint software and opens up interesting growth opportunities within smart cards," says Håkan Persson, CEO of Precise Biometrics. "In the coming years, smart cards and other new markets will contribute to a significant growth of the market for fingerprint sensors," says Jörgen Lantto, CEO of Fingerprint Cards. "Our ambition is to take the leading position within these new areas in the same way as we did within smartphones. Our leading fingerprint sensor technology together with Precise Biometrics' algorithm will offer market-leading performance," concludes Jörgen Lantto. Precise Biometrics has close to 20 years' experience of developing fingerprint software for small sensors, and has set the standard for the best user experience on mobile devices. The company's software is used hundreds of millions times every day by people across the whole world, and is integrated in smartphones from over 25 smartphone manufacturers and in more than 100 million national ID cards. Precise BioMatch TM Embedded is an industry leading algorithm solution that offers convenient and secure fingerprint recognition for products with small fingerprint sensors and platforms with limited processing power and memory space, such as smart cards, wearables, locks and cars. This press release contains information that Precise Biometrics is required to disclose pursuant to the Swedish Financial Instruments Trading Act (1991:980). The information was submitted for publication at 8.00 am CET on February 17, 2016. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION, PLEASE CONTACT Håkan Persson, CEO, Precise Biometrics AB Telefon; +46 46 31 11 05 or +46 734 35 11 05 E-mail; hakan.persson@precisebiometrics.com ABOUT PRECISE BIOMETRICS Precise Biometrics is a market-leading provider of solutions that prove people's identities through smart cards and fingerprint recognition. The company´s products can be used for ID, enterprise and bank cards as well as access to mobile solutions, computers and networks. Precise Biometrics serves business and government organizations throughout the world andP R E S S R E L E A S E LUND, FEBRUARY 17th 2016 Page 2 of 2 its products are licensed to close to 160 million users. For more information, please visit www.precisebiometrics.com
ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB Press release, 2017-09-18 ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB: Last day of trading in BTA In August 2017, ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB (”ExpreS2ion”) conducted a rights issue of shares in which the public was also invited to subscribe for shares. Through the rights issue, 872 873 new shares were issued. The last day of trading in BTA (“Betald tecknad aktie”) is September 21, 2017 and the stop day is September 25, 2017. 872 873 new shares have been registered at the Swedish Company Authority (“Bolagsverket”) and these are expected to be distributed to the respective VP account/depot on September 27, 2017. Following registration, the total number of shares in ExpreS2ion amounts to 9 601 612 and the share capital is 1 066 845.7778 SEK. Financial advisor and Certified Adviser Sedermera Fondkommission is the financial advisor to ExpreS2ion in connection with the rights issue. Sedermera Fondkommission is also appointed as Certified Adviser for ExpreS2ion. For questions related to the rights issue, please contact: Sedermera Fondkommission Telephone: +46 (0) 40-615 14 10 E-mail: info@sedermera.se For further information, please contact: Dr. Steen Klysner, CEO Telephone: +45 2062 9908 E-mail: sk@expres2ionbio.com This information is information that ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB is obliged to make public in accordance with the EU Market Abuse Regulation. The information was submitted for publication through the agency of the contact person set out above, on September 18, 2017. ExpreS2ion Biotechnologies ApS, is a fully owned Danish subsidiary of ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB with company register number 559033-3729. The subsidiary has developed a unique platform technology, ExpreS2, enabling cost effective development and robust production of complex proteins for new vaccines and diagnostics for e.g. Malaria and Zika. Since founded in 2010, the company has used its patented ExpreS2 platform to produce more than 250 proteins in collaborations with research institutions and biopharmaceutical companies, with a superior efficiency and success rate.
Pressmeddelande Östersund 2017-08-14 Diös Fastigheter owns and develops both commercial and residential properties in prioritized growth areas in northern Sweden. With a market value of approx. SEK 19 billion, a portfolio of 347 properties and a lettable area of 1,580,000 sq.m, our vision is to be the most active and sought-after landlord in our market. The properties are located from Borlänge to Luleå with its head office in Östersund. The company has since 2005 had a continuous growth in value in the property portfolio and the share is listed on Nasdaq OMX Stockholm, Mid Cap. Learn more about Diös on www.dios.se Diös Fastigheter AB (publ), Box 188, SE-831 22 Östersund | Phone: +46 770-33 22 00, info@dios.se, www.dios.se | Corp Id: 556501-1771 Diös sells commercial property in Söderhamn Diös Fastigheter sells four commercial properties in Söderhamn, with a total area of 10 000 square meters. This corresponds to Diös’ entire property stock of the city. The underlying property value of the sale is SEK 51 million, which is in line with Diös’ most recent valuation. The buyer is Helsinge Hus and the change of possession will be September 1st 2017. The properties consist of commercial area and a minor area of apartments. The two largest tenats are Arbetsförmedlingen and Willys. The transaction takes form as company transaction and the results will be reported in the third quarter of 2017. - This is part of our strategic plan of focusing our property portfolio towards the city centres of our ten prioritized cities, says Lars-Göran Dahl, Head of Business Development, Diös Fastigheter. – This acquisition completes our property portfolio in Söderhamn and fits well in our strategy of continuing developing the centre of the city, says Olov Johansson, CEO, Helsingehus. For more information please contact: Lars-Göran Dahl, Head of Business Development, Diös Fastigheter Phone: +46 10-470 95 04 E-mail: lars-goran.dahl@dios.se Olov Johansson, CEO, Helsingehus Phone: +46 70-660 53 33 E-mail: olov@helsningehus.se This information is information that Diös Fastigheter AB]is obliged to make public pursuant to the EU Market Abuse Regulation. The information was submitted for publication, through the agency of the contact person set out above, at 13.35 CET on 14 August 2017.
ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB Press release, 2018-01-16 ExpreS2ion resolves on a preferential rights issue to accelerate the Company’s development Hørsholm, Danmark, January 16, 2018 – ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB (”ExpreS2ion”) announces that the Board has decided, pursuant to the authorisation granted by an Extraordinary General Meeting, to carry out a preferential rights issue with the aim to accelerate the Company's development. The preferential rights issue comprises a maximum of 2,400,403 shares with a subscription price of 8.00 SEK per share. The public is also invited to subscribe for shares. Upon full subscription of the rights issue, Expres2ion will raise approximately MSEK 19,203,224 before issue expenses. Beforehand, ExpreS2ion has agreed on subscription commitments amounting to approximately MSEK 10.9, corresponding to approximately 57 percent of the total issue amount, with persons and entities including management, major shareholders and institutions. ExpreS2ion also announces that the Company's Year End Report will be published on February 7, 2018. The previous publication date was February 28, 2018. Notice of the Extraordinary General Meeting will be published shortly. The proceeds from the preferential rights issue are expected to finance: • Working capital to, on its own, pursue additional projects regarding vaccines and candidate drugs that the Company regularly encounter on the market. • Resources to create more value in the joint venture AdaptVac and its development projects. • Further development of the Company’s platform with new products that will strengthen the Company's position in new market segments and generate new clients, thereby increasing the Company's short-term earnings as well as long-term possibilities. A comment from CEO Steen Klysner "Our positive development since the listing in 2016 has increased the Company's revenue significantly, and at the same time we have reached a unique and favourable position in the market. The Company's board and management, together with major shareholders, deem the Company’s limited working capital a limiting factor in developing the Company in an optimal way. We regularly encounter opportunities with potential to create significant value for the Company, that we are forced to decline because of resource shortages. The number of opportunities has increased, both thanks to our joint ownership in the promising company AdaptVac and as a direct consequence of our increased market efforts. Additional capital would increase the pace of our process towards achieving critical mass for our core activities, ensure a strong value development for the Company's existing assets, and at the same time enable us to invest in and develop additional assets. The strong confidence in the Company is seen not in the least through subscription commitments of approximately 57 % from management, major shareholders and institutions. Purpose of the preferential rights issue ExpreS2ion has increased the number of projects and its revenue during the last 12 months. Additionally, in 2017, the joint venture AdaptVac ApS was formed together with NextGen Vaccines ApS, a spin-out from the University of Copenhagen, which has a synergistic and revolutionary platform technology for vaccines and vaccine-like treatments, and a pipeline of early, promising pharmaceutical projects. To finance this opportunity, ExpreS2ion carried out a preferential rights issue of around MSEK 3.9 in August 2017. In addition to the therapeutic, breast cancer related vaccine previously made public by the Company, the AdaptVac pipeline contains another candidate that, in early studies, has shown promising results compared to existing therapies/vaccines. Due to competitive reasons, the Company cannot announce which indications this candidate is developed for at this time, but the plug-and-play procedure that is integrated in the technology is ideal for quickly developing advanced candidate drugs. With additional resources, the pace for initiating the development of one-two new candidates can be increased. Following the Company's success with the applied development strategy, and the opportunities it has created, the board, management and major shareholders now deem this strategy and business model, primarily based on financing business development by increasing core business revenues, to be insufficient in enabling the Company to pursue encountered opportunities in an optimal way going forward. Currently, the Company is mainly relying on on-going revenue to finance development activities, which results in lost revenues and business opportunities in situations where a larger working capital would enable the Company to benefit from market needs and utilise additional opportunities to create value with significantExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB Press release, 2018-01-16 potential. Additional capital would also increase the pace of the ongoing development of the Company's core activities, thus accelerating the process of achieving critical mass and the financial strength and economies of scale that this would entail. Additionally, an increase of liquid funds would ensure a higher pace in the development of existing pharmaceutical assets in the joint venture AdaptVac, as well as enable the Company to enter into new agreements and initiate projects for highly valued pharmaceutical assets and other similar opportunities. In view of the above, ExpreS2ion is now planning to carry out a preferential rights issue of approximately MSEK 19.2 to finance a development plan consisting of a number of selected elements that combined will enable consolidation, development and expansion of the Company’s core business into a profitable and revenue generating platform. This will also enable the Company to invest in AdaptVac to increase the value of its technology platform and pharmaceutical projects significantly, and to pursue new opportunities to create value in synergy with the Company’s platform. Summary of the offer • Subscription period: February 8 - 27 2018 • Subscription price: SEK 8.00 per share • Volume of issuance: The offer comprises a maximum of 2,400,403 shares, corresponding to SEK 19,203,224 • Record date and preferential right: Those registered as shareholders in ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB on the record date February 2, 2018 have preferential right to subscribe for shares in the planned rights issue. For each held share, one (1) subscription right is received. Four (4) subscription rights entitle to subscription of one (1) new share. Please note that the public is also invited to subscribe for shares in the rights issue • Number of shares prior to the rights issue: 9,601,612 shares • Trading period of subscription rights: Trading with subscription rights will be conducted through Nasdaq Stockholm First North from February 8 until February 23, 2018 • Company valuation (pre-money): Approximately MSEK 76.8 • Trading period of BTAs: Trading with BTAs will be conducted through Nasdaq Stockholm First North from February 8, 2018 until the rights issue is registered at the Swedish Company Authority (“Bolagsverket”). The registration is expected to be finished in the middle of March 2018. • Subscription commitments: ExpreS2ion has received subscription commitments of approximately MSEK 10.9 corresponding to approximately 57 percent of the right issue’s total volume, from persons and entities including the management of the company, major shareholders and institutions Full terms and instructions, information on subscription commitments and memorandum, teaser and subscription form without preferential right will be published on the company's (www.expres2ionbio.com) and Sedermera Fondkommissions (www.sedermera.se) websites no later than the beginning of the subscription period. Financial advisor Sedermera Fondkommission is ExpreS2ion’s financial advisor in connection with the preferential rights issue. Certified Adviser Sedermera Fondkommission is the Certified Adviser of ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB. For further information about ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB, please contact: Dr. Steen Klysner, CEO of ExpreS2ion Telephone: +45 2062 9908 Email: sk@expres2ionbio.com This press release contains information that ExpreS2ion is obligated to make public pursuant to the EU Market Abuse Regulation. This information was provided, through the above contact, for publication on the 16 of January 2018. About ExpreS2ion ExpreS2ion Biotechnologies ApS is a fully owned Danish subsidiary of ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB with company register number 559033-3729. ExpreS2ion’s unique proprietary platform technology, ExpreS2, is designed to enable accelerated, cost effective development and robust production of complex proteins for new vaccines and diagnostics. Since founded in 2010, more than 250 proteins involved in e.g. malaria and Zika were produced in collaborations with research institutions andExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB Press release, 2018-01-16 companies with a superior efficiency and success rate. ExpreS2ion also develops competitive virus-like-particle based vaccines through its joint venture AdaptVac, which was founded in 2017.
TGS Robert Hobbs Kristian K. Johansen Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Q3 2014 Earnings Release2 All statements in this presentation other than statements of historical fact, are forward-looking statements, which are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict and are based upon assumptions as to future events that may not prove accurate. These factors include TGS’ reliance on a cyclical industry and principal customers, TGS’ ability to continue to expand markets for licensing of data, and TGS’ ability to acquire and process data products at costs commensurate with profitability. Actual results may differ materially from those expected or projected in the forward-looking statements. TGS undertakes no responsibility or obligation to update or alter forward-looking statements for any reason. Forward-Looking Statements3 Q3 2014 Highlights  Net revenues were 190 MUSD compared to 191 MUSD in Q3 2013  Net late sales of 130 MUSD, down 6% from 138 MUSD in Q3 2013  Net pre-funding revenues of 51 MUSD were up 17%, funding 55% of TGS’ operational multi-client investments for the quarter (93 MUSD)  Operating profit for the quarter was 71 MUSD, 38% of net revenues, compared to 80 MUSD (42% of net revenues) in Q3 2013  Cash flow from operations was 184 MUSD compared to 118 MUSD in Q3 2013  Three 3D vessels and two 2D vessels operating under TGS control in Q3 2014  TGS was also a participant in two 2D marine JV projects, one high resolution P- CableTM marine JV project and one CSEM marine project  TGS commenced its first commercial Full Azimuth Node (FANTM) multi-client survey in the Gulf of Mexico4 Operational Highlights
ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB Press Release, 2017-06-28 ExpreS2ion repositions and gains important ground in the fight against cancer through joint venture Hørsholm, Denmark, June 28, 2017 – Today, ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB announces that the fully owned subsidiary ExpreS2ion Biotechnologies ApS (“ExpreS2ion”) via its ownership in AdaptVac ApS (“AdaptVac”) and the proprietary new Plug-and-Play Virus-Like Particle (VLP) technology, has accelerated the development of efficient therapeutic and prophylactic vaccines within high value segments of oncology, infectious diseases and immunological disorders. This represents a new market focus for ExpreS2ion and a strong repositioning potential due to the shift from being mainly a service provider to also being a developer of vaccines. The risk-adjusted net present value of ExpreS2ion’s stake in AdaptVac’s initial pipeline is estimated to be in the 50-100 million SEK range. AdaptVac now holds a prototype of breast cancer vaccine AdaptVac, a joint venture between ExpreS2ion and NextGen Vaccines ApS (NextGen), is dedicated to become a world leading player in the development of highly competitive vaccines and therapeutics for cancer, infectious diseases and immunological disorders. AdaptVac is a 50:50% joint venture between NextGen and ExpreS2ion and will operate as an independent business unit with costs and profits divided equally between the owners. Initially, AdaptVac will focus on two lead projects within oncology and infectious diseases, respectively. This is based on already established studies performed with the licensed VLP technology, where results have demonstrated safety and efficacy in established animal cancer models, leading to a prototype of a breast cancer vaccine. The second indication is not yet disclosed due to patent considerations, but its market value is in the same range as breast cancer. ExpreS2ion repositions and gains substantial economic boost CEO Dr. Steen Klysner says: “We expect to create substantial value for ExpreS2ion and its shareholders through the AdaptVac joint venture based on its superior technology platform and a high value pipeline. This joint venture represents a new market focus for ExpreS2ion and a strong repositioning potential, as we move from being mainly a service provider to also being a developer of vaccines. Based on the impressive existing results, I am certain that the therapeutic and prophylactic vaccines from AdaptVac will be important value drivers for the company in the future.” Strong market potential and value Breast cancer is a widespread oncology indication affecting more than 1.3 million worldwide annually and resulting in more than 450,000 deaths (Tao, 2015: www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25543329). The most common treatment today is based on monoclonal antibodies, where the dominating therapy HERCEPTIN (trastuzumab) on an annual basis generates global sales of US$ 7 billion. While the decade long leadership by HERCEPTIN is expected to come to a halt in light of patent expiries and the introduction of biosimilars, the product profile of AdaptVac’s lead pipeline candidate has the potential to capture market shares, leading to significant sales levels. ExpreS2ion’s Board of Directors estimates a risk-adjusted net present value (rNPV) of AdaptVac’s two lead projects to be more than 100 mio SEK. The value of the rNPV represents the value from forecasted income from milestone payments and royalties of net sales based on an assessment of projected market size, costs for bringing the product to market, and taking into account the risk associated with currently being in the preclinical development stage. Certified Adviser Sedermera Fondkommission is appointed as Certified Adviser for ExpreS2ion. For further information about ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB, please contact: Dr. Steen Klysner, CEO Telephone: +45 2062 9908 E-mail: sk@expres2ionbio.com This press release contains information that ExpreS2ion is obligated to make public pursuant to the EU Market Abuse Regulation. The information was submitted for publication through the agency of the contact person set out above on June 28, 2017.ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB Press Release, 2017-06-28 About ExpreS2ion ExpreS2ion Biotechnologies ApS, is a fully owned Danish subsidiary of ExpreS2ion Biotech Holding AB with company register number 559033-3729. The subsidiary has developed a unique platform technology, ExpreS2, enabling cost effective development and robust production of complex proteins for new vaccines and diagnostics for e.g. Malaria and Zika. Since founded in 2010, the company has used its patented ExpreS2 platform to produce more than 200 proteins in collaborations with research institutions and biopharmaceutical companies, with a superior efficiency and success rate.
Kista, May 23, 2016 Cortus Energy and Powercell are jointly developing a climate- neutral solution to produce environmentally friendly electricity Cortus Energy AB (publ) has signed a letter of intent for a partnership with the leading fuel cell company Powercell Sweden AB (publ) to develop and market environmentally friendly biomass to power solutions. Cortus Energy will begin working closely with leading fuel cell company Powercell. Together they will offer a biomass to power solution based on Cortus Energy's WoodRoll® gasification process that produce hydrogen which is used in fuel cells from Powercell to generate renewable power. The alliance with Powercell means an environmentally friendly and highly effective alternative to the gas engines that are used in WoodRoll® installations to supply internal process power. It also opens up for opportunities to use fuels cell for generating Combined Heat & Power in commercial WoodRoll® installations. "Electricity generation by fuel cells means higher efficiency with lower emissions than what is possible with today’s gas engines. Through a system of fuel cells in WoodRoll®, the cost of power generated is reduced. We also get the opportunity to become self-sufficient in power to our own process. Large mutual benefits and synergies simply", says Rolf Ljunggren, CEO, Cortus Energy AB. The cooperation is an opportunity to fill the need for renewable hydrogen at a low cost and high availability, which are critical parameters for the commercial success. Powercell also sees synergies with stacks for automotive and industrial applications of fuel cells that will increase the production rate of the stacks and thereby reach critical production volumes. "Cortus technology means a clean gas from biomass on a large scale which opening up new market opportunities for fuel cells. We certainly look forward to a close cooperation with Cortus Energy to jointly develop solutions that fits customers' needs for environmentally friendly power solutions based on biomass", says Andreas Boden, Marketing & Sales Manager, Powercell Sweden AB. The letter of intent on cooperation means the companies shall gradually validate the technology, from tests in Köping (WoodRoll® testing site) to industrial scale e.g. for Japan. Anupscaling of the technologies creates opportunities for new joint customer projects where Cortus Energy and Power Cell's technologies are integrated. For more information, please contact: Rolf Ljunggren CEO, Cortus Energy AB (publ) Tel: +46 (0) 8 588 866 30 Per Wassén CEO of Powercell Sweden AB (publ) Tel: +46 (0) 76 55 33 771 Email: per.wassen@powercell.se About Cortus Energy Cortus Energy (Publ) offers cost-effective energy gas for power, industrial and automotive applications based on its patented WoodRoll technology. WoodRoll has great feedstock flexibility, which means that the process can utilize low-grade renewable feedstock without compromising processing performance. Cortus Energy's shares are traded on Nasdaq First North (Stockholm, Sweden). Mangold Fondkommission, phone +46 8-503 01 550, is the Company's Certified Adviser. For further information, please visit: www.cortusenergy.com About Powercell Sweden AB (publ) PowerCell Sweden AB is the leading fuel cell company in the Nordics, which develops and produces environmental-friendly fuel cell power solutions for stationary and mobile customer applications. PowerCell has developed a modular system of fuel cell platforms producing electricity from hydrogen with only heat and water as emissions. The fuel cells are designed to handle pure hydrogen as well as the hydrogen reformed from e.g. biogas, natural gas, biodiesel or standard low-sulphur diesel. Our aim is to provide unique fuel cell power solutions that allow our customers to utilise the existing fuel infrastructures without further damage to the environment. We believe that our system truly bridges the gap between the infrastructure of today and that of tomorrow, by using tomorrow’s technology within today’s reality. Powercell Sweden AB (publ) is listed on First North at NASDAQ Stockholm and is an industrial spin-out from the Volvo Group. G & W Fondkommission is the Company designated Certified Adviser for listing on Nasdaq First North Stockholm. Among the largest owners are Midroc New Technologies, Fourier transform, Finindus and Volvo Group Venture Capital. For further information, please visit: www.powercell.se
Cybercom Group AB P.O. Box 7574, SE-103 93 Stockholm, Sweden info@cybercom.com Tel +46 8 578 646 00 To the editor 17 April 2018 SOK chooses Cybercom as its cloud partner The frame agreement made by SOK and Cybercom in March 2018 continues the collaboration started last year. The frame agreement covers managed services, expert services and project deliveries for cloud services. The agreement is valid until further notice. “Cybercom's strong expertise and quality of services have met our expectations from the very start of the collaboration, and we're happy with the frame agreement we've just made. With the agreement, we'll receive the expert services we need for e.g. AWS cloud platform maintenance and development, development of new cloud-native apps, and cloud transition projects of current apps. Cloud services offer diverse possibilities for business development,” says Raimo Mäenpää, CIO at SOK. S Group is a Finnish network of companies operating in the retail and service sectors, and it is comprised of cooperatives and SOK Corporation (Suomen Osuuskauppojen Keskuskunta) along with its subsidiaries. S Group offers services in the supermarket, department store and speciality store trade, service station store and fuel sales, the travel industry and hospitality business, and the hardware trade. In addition, some regional cooperatives have automotive and agricultural outlets, and S-Bank provides all co-op members with comprehensive banking services. “We're very happy with the frame agreement and collaboration with SOK. I'm happy to say that SOK trusts our expertise and experience in software development and cloud services and the related support services. Cybercom has over 1,200 experts who will help the customer build and develop their digital services. We look forward to what's to come and support SOK in the development of their business with complete confidence,” says Veli-Matti Nurminen, Managing Director, Cybercom Finland. Cybercom is an IT service company and turnkey supplier that helps companies and organisations benefit from the opportunities of digitalisation. As a leading cloud services expert and maintenance provider, we have helped several of our customers build and implement successful cloud solutions. Our partners include Amazon Web Services (AWS) and Microsoft Azure. For further information, please contact: Veli-Matti Nurminen, Head of Cybercom Finland +358 50 385 9911 Kristina Cato, Head of Sustainability and Communications +46 708 64 47 02 About Cybercom Cybercom is an innovative IT consulting firm that enables leading companies and organisations to capture the opportunities of digitalisation. We provide innovative, secure and sustainable solutions in IT and communications technology by combining technical edge and strong business insight. This applies whether the issue is transforming products into services, developing new business models or helping the public sector get closer to citizens. We are found where technology and business development meet. We think big. We test, we learn and we adapt. And the distance from planning to action is short. The single objective is for our clients to succeed in the connected world. This is how we are making tomorrow, today. We are a richly diverse company with a large range of ages, 44 nationalities and assignments in 21 countries. We are creating the world of tomorrow in unison, we are creative, fearless and inquisitive – always ready to challenge the status quo. We turn our words into action and empower change. We are the #Makers of tomorrow. Cybercom has been a privately owned company since 2015. Its main shareholders are JCE Group AB and Tequity AB. Cybercom’s domestic markets are the Nordic region and Poland, and in addition the company offers global delivery capacity for local and international business. www.cybercom.com
1 Isofol Medical AB, Biotech Center, Arvid Wallgrens Backe 20, SE-413 46 Gothenburg, Sweden New scientific findings strengthen rationale and motivation for Isofol Medical to conduct the pivotal ISO-CC-007 study July 3 2017 Isofol Medical AB (publ) announced today that academic researchers collaborating with Isofol have presented results last week at ESMO-GI which further support the scientific rationale underlying the development of Modufolin® as to improve the treatment results for patients with colorectal cancer. Isofol Medical AB (publ), a clinical staged oncology company, announced today that at the ESMO World Congress of Gastrointestinal Cancer in Barcelona last week, academic researchers collaborating with Isofol presented results which further support the scientific fundament underlying the development of Modufolin® as to improve treatment results for patients with colorectal cancer. In a study of patients with metastasizing colorectal cancer, i.e. so called Stage IV, and with an inherently poor prognosis, it has now been clearly shown that low expression levels of the folate relevant gene ABCC3 is linked to poor response to today’s standard therapy comprising of 5-FU (5-fluorouracil) and leucovorin. Previous results have shown that low expression levels of folate-associated genes lead to poor response to 5-FU + leucovorin in patients with less severe colorectal cancer since, unless properly transported and metabolized, leucovorin will not be converted to the co-factor [6R]-5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate. High levels of this co-factor are needed to inhibit the target enzyme of 5-FU in order to achieve the desired anti-tumor response. "We have now seen results in patients with several stages of colorectal cancer and all results support our ambition to complete the formal documentation for Modufolin® as a superior treatment alternative for patients with colorectal cancer” says Karin Ganlöv, CMO for Isofol Medical. Since leucovorin requires the genetically regulated activation to become active, the new results confirm the rationale to exchange it for Modufolin® which is directly active and does not require multistep conversion, now, also for the severely ill patients planned to be enrolled in the coming pivotal efficacy study ISO-CC-007. ESMO-GI Poster Poster: Expression of folate pathway genes with putative impact on leucovorin metabolism and outcome of patients with advanced colorectal cancer Citation: Odin E, Sondén A, Saksena P, Edsjö A, Carlsson G, Vedin A, Gustavsson B, and Wettergren Y Dept. of Surgery, Sahlgrenska Academy at University of Gothenburg, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Sweden, Bioinformatics Core Facilities, Sahlgrenska Academy at University of Gothenburg, Sweden, Dept. of Pathology, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Gothenburg, Sweden, Dept. of Pathology, Regional Laboratories, Region Skåne, Lund, Sweden, Isofol Medical AB, Arvid Wallgrens Backe 20, Gothenburg, Sweden Date: 30TH of June, Barcelona, Spain. Third most common cancer Colorectal cancer is the third most common cancer, affecting both men and women, and is the third-leading cause of cancer-related death. Approximately 1.35 million people per year are expected to be affected by the disease, worldwide. In the US, Western Europe and Japan, where an estimated 550 000 patients are affected by colorectal cancer, about 360 000 patients annually receive – 5-FU and leucovorin/levoleucovorin – the same regimen that Isofol is aiming to replace.2 Isofol Medical AB, Biotech Center, Arvid Wallgrens Backe 20, SE-413 46 Gothenburg, Sweden For more information, please contact: Anders Rabbe, CEO, Isofol Medical AB E-mail: anders.rabbe@isofolmedical.com Phone: +46 (0)707 646 500 About Modufolin® Modufolin® (active ingredient [6R]-5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate), is a novel folate-based compound developed to increase the efficacy and reduce the side effects of antimetabolites used in cancer treatment. It is the key active metabolite of the widely used folate-based drugs leucovorin and levoleucovorin. As Modufolin® does not require metabolic activation to exert it’s effect, Modufolin® is suitable for all patients irrespective of their capacity to activate folates. Modufolin® is currently being evaluated in two clinical Phase II studies. About Isofol Medical AB Isofol Medical AB is a clinical stage oncology company developing Modufolin® as a first-line treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer and as a rescue drug after high-dose methotrexate treatment in osteosarcoma. Through a worldwide exclusive license agreement, Isofol Medical holds the rights to commercialise Modufolin® with access to the unique patented production process and the production capabilities of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany. Isofol Medical AB is traded on the NASDAQ First North Premier. Certified Adviser is FNCA Sweden AB www.isofol.se
Saint Petersburg 2008 — Saint Petersburg, Russia, 7 - 10 April 2008 B030 New Seismic Data on the South and North Chukchi Sedimentary Basins and the Wrangel Arch and Their Significance for the Geology of Chukchi Sea Shelf (R V. Verzhbitsky* (TGS-NOPEC Geophysical Company Moscow), E.M. Frantzen (TGS-NOPEC Geophysical Company ASA), K. Trommestad (TGS- NOPEC Geophysical Company ASA), T. Savostina (TGS-NOPEC Geophysical Company Moscow), A. Little (TGS Geological Products and Services), S.D. Sokolov (Geological Institute, Russian Academy of Sciences), M.I. Tuchkova (Geological Institute, Russian Academy of Sciences), T. Travis (TGS-NOPEC Geophysical Company (UK) Limited), O. Martyntsiva (TGS- NOPEC Geophysical Company (UK) Limited) & M. Ullnaess (TGS-NOPEC Geophysical Company ASA) SUMMARY During the summer of 2006 TGS-NOPEC conjointly with Geophysical Solutions Integrator acquired new seismic data in the Russian part of the Chukchi Sea. The area of the Chukchi Sea studied includes (from S to N): South Chukchi sedimentary basin (1), Wrangel Late Kimmerian Arch (2), North Chukchi sedimentary basin (3). Due to the absence of offshore wells in the Russian sector of Chukchi Sea, the interpretation of acquired seismic data and definition of probable hydrocarbon potential must be based on the comparison with the US sector of the Chukchi Sea and the Alaska North Slope, as well as on the geology of Northern Chukotka and Wrangel Island. In the northern part of the Wrangel Arch most of the thrust faults are N-vergent, but double-vergent transpressional structures also occur. To the North of the Wrangel Arch, a clearly recognizable angular unconformity in the upper parts of the North Chukchi basin may correspond to the Lower/Upper Brookian (~Cretaceous/Tertiary) boundary, although it may be as old as Early Cretaceous (pre-Aptian) in age. The maximum Pz-Mz-Cz sediment thickness of the North Chukchi basin exceeds 16 km. In the South Chukchi basin the thickness of sediments (Late Cretaceous?- Cenozoic) mostly doesn t exceed 3-4 km, but in some places reaches 5-6 km. The geometry of the faults indicates an extensional/transtensional setting of the South Chukchi rift basin development. The changes in phase or polarity in upper parts of the sedimentary cover, listric fault planes in the pre-rift sequences, associated with areas of reduced reflectivity in the upper sediments may point to a gas presence. The syn- orogenic (pre-rift) Upper Jurassic-Lower Cretaceous organic-rich terrigenous sequence (containing visible plant remnants), which is exposed onshore in Northern Central Chukotka and is probably present in the Chukchi Sea, may represent regional gas source rocks.Saint Petersburg 2008 — Saint Petersburg, Russia, 7 - 10 April 2008 During the summer of 2006 TGS-NOPEC conjointly with “Geophysical Solutions Integrator” acquired new seismic data in the Russian part of the Chukchi Sea. Due to the absence of offshore wells in the Russian sector of Chukchi Sea, the interpretation of acquired seismic data and definition of probable hydrocarbon potential must be based on the comparison with the US sector of the Chukchi Sea and the Alaska North Slope, as well as on the geology of Chukotka Peninsula and Wrangel Island. In particular, the preliminary results of International Russian- Sweeden-USA geological expedition-2006 on Wrangel Island and Northern Chukotka [Sokolov et al., 2007; Pease et al., 2007; Verzhbitsky and Miller, 2007] are quite important as well. The studied area of Chukchi Sea includes several regional tectonic subdivisions (from South to North): Chukotka fold belt area, South-Chukchi sedimentary basin, Wrangel (Wrangel- Herald) Arch, North-Chukchi sedimentary basin (fig. 1, 2). Figure 1. Relief, main geographical names and features of the Eastern Arctic tectonic structure (based on the map of A.O.Mazarovich and S.Yu.Sokolov, 2003). Topographic base – IBCAO (2001, http://www.ngdc.noaa.gov/mgg/bathymetry/arctic/arctic.html). Black dotted line delineates the area of seismic profiling, carried out by TGS-NOPEC in 2006. Southernmost area, nearest to Chukotka Peninsula, is a part of Late Kimmerian New Siberian- Chukotka fold-thrust fault belt, formed in Neocomian (pre-Aptian/Albian) as a result of closure of South-Anyui paleooceanic basin, subsequent collision between Eurasia and New Siberian- Chukotka microplate and the formation of narrow, highly deformed South-Anyui suture zone [e.g. Bondarenko, 2004; Sokolov et al., 2001, 2002] (fig. 2).Saint Petersburg 2008 — Saint Petersburg, Russia, 7 - 10 April 2008 Figure 2. Main tectonic elements of Chukchi Sea region. Compiled after [Mazarovich., Sokolov, 2003; Khain, 2001; Sokolov et al,, 2001, 2002; Miller et al., 2002]. Blue color corresponds to the simplified distribution of free air gravity anomalies. More to the North, between Chukotka and Late Kimmerian Wrangel-Herald arch, the South Chukchi sedimentary basin was outlined by several researchers [e.g. Shipilov et al., 1989; Mazarovich and Sokolov, 2003]. The time of its formation is unclear, but as it is superimposed on Late Kimmerian fold belt, the age of its sediment filling must be not earlier, than Aptian-Albian (?)-Late Cretaceous. According to the drilled cores in US part of Chukchi Sea, on the proposed E- SE continuation of the South Chukchi basin – Hope basin, its age is Cenozoic [Tolson, 1987]. The geometry of the faults indicates an extensional/transtensional setting of the South Chukchi rift basin development, similar with the Hope basin in US part of Chukchi Sea [Tolson, 1987]. The prominent strong reflectivity linear zone, dipping to the South, was found in the basement of southernmost part of studied area, near Chukotka Peninsula (fig. 3). This zone divides the basement in two units with different structural style – “Southern” and “Northern”. “Southern” unit is almost acoustically transparent, but, at the same time, “Northern” has some elements of “stratification”. It is likely, that this boundary may represents basement tectonic fault zone. Obvious Z-asymmetric folds of the reflectors within it point to the North-vergent thrust sense of proposed displacement (fig. 3, incut). One of the possible explanations is, that this zone represents the tectonic contact between two different terranes (sub-terranes), widely distributed in the Mesozoic fold belts of NE Eurasia [e.g. Parfenov et al., 1993; Sokolov et al., 1997]. From the other hand, it also may corresponds to the low-angle overthrusting of very intensively deformed Chukotkian Paleozoic-Triassic rocks on the much less deformed syn-collisional Late Jurassic- Early Cretaceous sediments and so, served main elements of stratification. According this interpretation, the horizontal amplitude of thrust displacement my exceed 20-30 km.Saint Petersburg 2008 — Saint Petersburg, Russia, 7 - 10 April 2008 Figure 3. Seismic section across the South Chukchi basin with some elements of interpretation. The South Chukchi rifted sedimentary basin is superimposed on the mentioned above basement fault zone and have asymmetric structure – gentle southern and steeper northern flank. This observations lead to suggestion, that South Chukchi basin inherited this significant pre- existing Kimmerian zone of displacements and was formed during Late Cretaceous (?) -Cenozoic as the result of the change of regional tectonic setting – from compression to extension. In the South Chukchi basin the thickness of sediments mostly doesn’t exceed 3-4 km, but in some places reaches 5-6 km. The changes in phase or polarity in upper parts of the sedimentary cover, listric fault planes in the pre-rift sequences, associated with areas of reduced reflectivity in the upper sediments may point to a gas presence. The syn-orogenic (pre-rift) Upper Jurassic-Lower Cretaceous organic-rich terrigenous sequence (containing visible plant remnants), which is exposed onshore in Northern Central Chukotka and is probably present in the Chukchi Sea, may represent regional gas source rocks. It is commonly believed, that Wrangel arch represents the NW continuation of Herald thrust - Cape Lisburne and Brooks Range fold-thrust fault structure. The time of arch formation may corresponds also to the Late Kimmerian (or, probably, younger) time. The structures of
TGS Robert Hobbs Kristian K. Johansen Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Q1 2014 Earnings Release2 All statements in this presentation other than statements of historical fact, are forward-looking statements, which are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict and are based upon assumptions as to future events that may not prove accurate. These factors include TGS’ reliance on a cyclical industry and principal customers, TGS’ ability to continue to expand markets for licensing of data, and TGS’ ability to acquire and process data products at costs commensurate with profitability. Actual results may differ materially from those expected or projected in the forward-looking statements. TGS undertakes no responsibility or obligation to update or alter forward-looking statements for any reason. Forward-Looking Statements3 Q1 2014 Highlights  Net revenues were 222 MUSD compared to 211 MUSD in Q1 2013  Net late sales of 137 MUSD, up 9% from 127 MUSD in Q1 2013  Net pre-funding revenues of 74 MUSD were up 33%, funding 57% of TGS’ operational multi-client investments for the quarter (129 MUSD)  Average amortization rate for the multi-client library was 41% compared to 38% in Q1 2013  Operating profit for the quarter was 94 MUSD, 42% of net revenues, compared to 89 MUSD (42% of net revenues) in Q1 2013  Five 3D vessels, two 2D vessels and five land crews operating under TGS control in Q1 2014  TGS was also a participant in one 2D marine JV project and one 3D marine JV project during Q1 20144 Operational Highlights
Pareto Securities has notified Isofol Medical AB that stabilisation measures regarding the Company’s shares have been taken For a complete press release follow the link http://isofol.se/en/ipo/ For additional information, please contact: Anders Rabbe, Managing Director, Isofol Mob: +46 70 764 65 00 Email: anders.rabbe@isofolmedical.com Jan-Eric Österlund, Executive Chairman, Isofol Mob: +44 77 853 68 155 Email: jan-eric@osterlund.co.uk About Isofol Medical AB (publ) Isofol is a clinical stage oncology company developing Modufolin® as a first-line treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer and as a rescue drug after high-dose methotrexate treatment in osteosarcoma. Isofol aims to replace the existing folate-based compounds leucovorin and levoleucovorin, which today are considered the standard treatment within these indications. Through an exclusive license agreement, Isofol Medical holds all rights to commercialising Modufolin® globally for cancer treatment with access to the unique patented production process and the production capabilities of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany. About Modufolin® Modufolin® (active ingredient [6R]-5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate), is a novel folate-based compound developed to increase the efficacy and reduce the side effects of antimetabolites used in cancer treatment. It is the key active metabolite of the widely used folate-based drugs leucovorin and levoleucovorin, and therefore does not require metabolic activation. This makes Modufolin® suitable for all patients irrespective of their genetical capacity to activate folates, and it is currently being evaluated in two clinical Phase II studies. Third most common cancer Colorectal cancer is the third most common cancer, affecting both men and women, and is the third leading cause of cancer-related death. Approximately 1.35 million people per year are diagnosed with the disease worldwide. In the US, Western Europe and Japan, where an estimated 550,000 patients are diagnosed with colorectal cancer, about 365,000 patients annually receive a treatment regimen including 5-FU and the folate leucovorin or levoleucovorin, which Isofol is aiming to replace with Modufolin®.
PRESS RELEASE DATE: 2017-12-08 VITEC • www.vitecsoftware.com • info@vitec.se UMEÅ: TVISTEVÄGEN 47 A, 907 29 UMEÅ, SWEDEN. PHONE: +46 90-15 49 00 Page 1 (1) Convertible bond fully converted The convertible bond for Vitec employees with start January 2015 is fully converted. The number of B shares has increased by 442,210, and the share capital increased by SEK 44,221. Total equity has increased by 13,985,736 SEK. The total number of shares after conversion amounts to 29,838,900 of which 3,350,000 are Class A- shares. For more information, please contact Patrik Fransson, Investor Relations patrik.fransson@vitec.se +46-76-9428597 Disclaimer This information is of such a kind that Vitec Software Group AB (publ.) is legally required to disclose pursuant to the EU’s Market Abuse Regulation and the Swedish Securities Market Act. The information was submitted for publication at 16:30 CET on Friday, December 8, 2017. About Vitec Vitec is market leader for Vertical Market Software in the Nordic region. We develop and deliver standard niche software. Vitec groves through acquisitions of well-managed and well-established software companies. The Group’s overall processes together with the employees’ in-depth knowledge of the customer’s local market enables continuous improvement and innovation. Our 600 employees are based in Denmark, Finland, Norway and Sweden. Vitec is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm and had net sales of SEK 675 million in 2016. Find more at www.vitecsoftware.com
TGS | EARNINGS RELEASE 23 OCTOBER 2015 TGS EARNINGS RELEASE 3rd QUARTER RESULTS 3rd QUARTER HIGHLIGHTS  Consolidated net revenues were USD 169 million, compared to USD 190 million in Q3 2014.  Net late sales totaled USD 90 million, down 31% from USD 130 million in Q3 2014.  Net pre-funding revenues were USD 74 million, up 45% from Q3 2014, funding 55% of the Company’s operational multi-client investments during Q3 (operational investments of USD 135 million, up 45% from Q3 2014).  Proprietary revenues were USD 5 million, compared to USD 9 million in Q3 2014.  Operating profit (EBIT) was USD 46 million (27% of net revenues), compared to USD 71 million (38% of net revenues) in Q3 2014.  Cash flow from operations was USD 121 million, compared to USD 187 million in Q3 2014.  Earnings per share (fully diluted) were USD 0.39, down from USD 0.53 in Q3 2014. 9 MONTHS FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS  Consolidated net revenues were USD 481 million, down from USD 617 million in 2014.  Net late sales from the multi-client library totaled USD 244 million, down 40% from USD 405 million in 2014.  Net pre-funding revenues were USD 220 million, up 19% from 2014, funding 53% of the Company’s operational multi-client investments during the first nine months of 2015 (operational investments of USD 414 million, up 23% from 2014).  Proprietary revenues were USD 17 million, compared to USD 28 million in 2014.  Operating profit (EBIT) was USD 119 million (25% of net revenues), compared to USD 247 million (40% of net revenues) in 2014.  Cash flow from operations was USD 467 million compared to USD 474 million in 2014, a decrease of 1%.  Earnings per share (fully diluted) were USD 0.91, down from 1.78 in 2014. “Energy companies continue to cut exploration spending, leading to continued pressure on demand for seismic data. Customer communication indicates that the current difficult market conditions will persist for some time. With a flexible cost structure and an asset-light balance sheet, TGS is positioned to take advantage of the uncertain market conditions and strengthen our position further,” TGS’ CEO Robert Hobbs stated. “Although investments will decline substantially in Q4, our 2015 revenue guidance remains unchanged”.Multi‐ client Seismic 89% Propr. Seismic 3%GPS 8% KEY FIGURES REVENUE BREAKDOWN TGS’ largest business activity is developing, managing, conducting and selling multi-client seismic surveys. This activity accounted for 89% of the Company’s business during the quarter. Geological Products and Services (GPS) accounted for 8% of net revenues in the second quarter, while proprietary seismic revenues accounted for 3% of net revenues. Net late sales for the quarter amounted to USD 90.4 million compared to USD 130.4 million in Q3 2014. Net late sales for the nine months ended September 2015 were USD 243.7 million representing a decrease of 40% from the same period in 2014. Net pre- funding revenues in the quarter totaled USD 73.6 million, an increase of 45% from Q3 2014. The pre-funding revenues recognized in the third quarter funded 55% of the operational investments of USD 134.7 million in the multi-client library. During Q3 2015, TGS also acquired Polarcus’ Northwest Europe multi-client data library for a total of USD 21.4 million. The closing of the acquisition of certain of Polarcus’ multi-client projects in West Africa took place in October 2015. During the first nine months of 2015, pre-funding amounted to USD 220.0 million (53% of operational investments) representing an increase of 19% compared to the same period in 2014. Proprietary contract revenues during the quarter totaled USD 5.5 million compared to USD 9.1 million in Q3 2014. For the nine months through September 2015, proprietary revenues totaled USD 16.9 million, compared to USD 27.7 million in 2014. (All amounts in USD 1,000s) Q3 2015 Q3 2014 YTD 2015 YTD 2014 Net operating revenues 169,468 190,115 480,612 616,979 EBIT 45,527 71,450 118,628 247,281 Pre-tax profit 43,578 71,677 117,044 252,659 Net income 40,069 54,684 93,199 184,045 EBIT margin 27% 38% 25% 40% Return on average capital employed 15% 35% 15% 35% Equity ratio 81% 77% 81% 77% MC library opening net book value 918,936 828,757 818,132 758,093 Investments in new projects 134,670 92,629 413,689 336,131 MC data acquired from third parties 21,398 - 21,398 - Amortization (98,869) (81,338) (277,084) (253,909) Exchange rate adjustments - (2,598) - (2,866) MC library ending net book value 976,135 837,449 976,135 837,449 Pre-funding % on operational investments 55% 55% 53% 55% NSA 87.8 (52%) Europe 50.5 (30%) AMEAP 12.6 (7%) Other 18.5 (11%)TGS’ reporting structure is broken down in the following seismic business segments; North and South America (NSA), Europe (EUR) and Africa, Middle East and Asia Pacific (AMEAP). In addition to these areas, several business units are aggregated to form an “Other” segment. This segment includes GPS Well Data, GPS Interpretations, Global Services and Imaging. The Company’s land seismic projects in North America are reported under the business segment NSA. Sales from NSA totaled USD 87.8 million in Q3 2015 (USD 98.5 million in Q3 2014). Sales from EUR amounted to USD 50.5 million in Q3 2015 (USD 53.1 million in Q3 2014), while AMEAP had total sales of USD 12.6 million in Q3 2015 (USD 11.2 million in Q3 2014). OPERATIONAL COSTS The amortization of the multi-client library for Q3 2015 amounted to USD 98.9 million, (USD 81.3 million in Q3 2014) which corresponds to 60% (45% in Q3 2014) of the net revenues from the multi-client library for the quarter. Amortization fluctuates from quarter to quarter, depending on the sales mix of projects. The amortization rate for the first nine months of 2015 was 60% compared to 43% in the same period in 2014. In Q3 2015, 5% of net multi-client revenues came from pre-2011 vintages, which are fully amortized in line with the Company’s amortization policy. Cost of goods sold (COGS) were USD 0.1 million for the quarter, same as in Q3 2014. Personnel costs expensed during the quarter were USD 14.4 million compared to USD 20.1 million in Q3 2014. The decrease is due to a reduction of almost 15% of the global workforce which was effective in Q2 2015, as well as lower costs related to employee incentive schemes. Other operating expenses were USD 7.6 million compared to USD 11.4 million in Q3 2014, which corresponds to a decrease of 33% explained by the cost reduction program initiated in early 2015. EBITDA AND EBIT Reported EBITDA (Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortization) for the quarter ended 30 September 2015 was USD 147.3 million, which corresponds to 87% of net revenues, down 6% from USD 157.2 million in Q3 2014. Operating profit (EBIT) for the quarter amounts to USD 45.5 million, which is down from USD 71.5 million in Q3 2014. FINANCIAL ITEMS The Company recorded a net currency exchange loss of USD 2.7 million in Q3 2015, which is mainly due to net losses related to translating local currency bank accounts into USD. TGS holds NOK bank accounts primarily to pay taxes and dividends in NOK. TAX TGS reports tax charges in accordance with the Accounting Standard IAS 12. Taxes are computed based on the USD value of the appropriate tax provisions according to local tax regulations and currencies in each jurisdiction. The tax charges are influenced not only from local profits, but also from fluctuations in exchange rates between the local currencies and USD. This method makes it difficult to predict tax charges on a quarterly or annual basis. Currency effects within the current year are classified as tax expenses. Management assesses that the normalized operating consolidated tax rate is approximately 30%. The tax rate reported for the quarter is at 8% compared to 24% last year. The low tax rate is mainly due to two reasons, US R&D tax credits recognized in Q3 2015 and the USD appreciation by 9% compared to NOK. Most of TGS’ taxable income is taxed in Norway where the taxes are calculated and paid in NOK on an annual basis. Of TGS’ total taxes payable at 30 September 2015, taxes payable in Norway represented more than 80%. As the Norwegian taxes are settled on an annual basis, the YTD exchange variation will impact the quarterly calculations of taxes. Accordingly, the currency effects for the Parent Company on the taxes payables and to changes in temporary differences measured in NOK are key contributors to the very low tax rate in Q3 2015.NET INCOME AND EARNINGS PER SHARE (EPS) Net income for Q3 2015 was USD 40.1 million (24% of net revenues), down from USD 54.7 million in Q3 2014. Quarterly earnings per share (EPS) were USD 0.39 fully diluted (USD 0.40 undiluted), which is down 26% from Q3 2014. MULTI-CLIENT INVESTMENTS AND LIBRARY Exchange rate adjustments are related to libraries with functional currencies other than USD BALANCE SHEET AND CASH FLOW The net cash flow from operations for the quarter, after taxes, before investments, totaled USD 121.0 million compared to USD 186.7 million in Q3 2014. Of the total acquisition price of USD 24.4 million for the Polarcus’ multi-client library, USD 18.8 million was paid in Q3 2015. As of 30 September 2015, the Company’s total cash holdings amounted to USD 191.5 million compared to USD 256.4 million at 31 December 2014. The Company has not recognized any impairments to goodwill or other intangible assets during Q3 2015. TGS currently does not have any interest bearing debt. The company has received commitments to increase the current USD 50 million revolving credit facility to a minimum of USD 75 million. The facility enables the company to continue to pursue attractive investment opportunities in a challenging market. Total equity per 30 September 2015 was USD 1,318.6 million, representing 81% of total assets. During the quarter, the Company transferred 120,800 treasury shares to cover the exercise of options by key employees. As of 30 September 2015, TGS held 732,000 treasury shares. BACKLOG TGS’ backlog amounted to USD 181.8 million at the end of Q3 2015, a decrease of 30% from Q3 2014 and 25% lower than last quarter. The decrease is mainly due to high production on the Northeast Greenland multi-year program. MUSD Beginning net book value Non-operational investments Operational investments Amortization Exchange Rate Adjustment Ending net book value 2014 758.1 - Q3 2014 9M 2015 9M 2014 336.1 (253.9) 413.7 21.4 918.9 828.8 - 21.4 - (277.1) Q3 2015 976.1 92.6 (81.3) 134.7 (387.3) 837.4 837.4 - (2.6) - (329.8) 818.1 758.1 (98.9) (2.9) (5.6) (2.1) - 462.3 (396.7) 651.2 758.1 2012 511.1 31.1 496.2 2013 651.2 - 438.9 976.1 818.1 MUSD Net MC revenues Change in MC revenue Change in MC investment Amort. in % of net MC revs. Change in net book value 90% 902.0 181.1 463.9 Q3 2014 59% 589.3 9M 2014 0% 60% 45% 68% 40% 16% 5% 10%19% -17% 43%60% 6% 1% 29% -3% -9% -17% 2013 Q3 2015 164.2 -9% 9M 2015 -21% 824.1 43% 2012 27% 2014 877.7 7% 5% 45% 8%
A CIBSE recognised CPD seminar A technical seminar suitable for mechanical services engineers designing swim- ming pool hall ventilation systems or carrying out energy surveys on swimming pools. Course Speaker : Kirsty Aldridge Course summary : 1-11/2 hour seminar illustrated by colour computer demonstration programs including the following topics: • Review of current design standards for swimming pools in the United Kingdom and elsewhere. • Optimum design conditions for bather comfort in hydrotherapy, hotel, competition and leisure pools. • The interaction between hygiene, pool water quality, pool hall air quality and wellness of lifeguards, swimmers and spectators. • The importance of careful structural design, detailing and construction in the control of condensation. • Calculation of evaporation and airflow rates. • Air distribution methods. • Construction techniques for swimming pool air handling units to withstand the aggressive Pool hall environment. • Reduction of fan motor power consumption using direct coupled free running ventilator wheels • Energy cost assessments for swimming pool ventilation systems, life cycle costing. Optional topics: • Indoor water parks – the challenge of higher evaporation rates. • Specific requirements for hydrotherapy pools. • Private pools • Salt water pools • Pool water dilution, shower water usage and waste water heat recovery. Ventilation, dehumidification and heat recovery for minimum energy use in swimming pool halls Kirsty Aldridge Menerga Ltd 29 Millers Road Warwick CV34 5AE For more information or to book a seminar please contact: tel: 01926 621770 fax: 01926 621771 email: cpd@menerga.co.uk www.menerga.co.ukTechnical Catalogue 2014 | We reserve the right to make changes without notice. © Menerga Ltd | www.menerga.co.uk Swimming pool units Low energy air conditioning ThermoCond® 19 ThermoCond® Type 23 ThermoCond® Type 35 ThermoCond® Type 38 ThermoCond® 29 ThermoCond® Type 19 and 23 with multi-stage heat recovery for private, hotel, therapy, small pub- lic swimming pool halls and small leisure pools. The Menerga unit automatically chooses the most economic mode of operation. ThermoCond® Type 29 with heat- pump for private, hotel, therapy, small public swimming pool halls and small leisure pools. The Menerga unit automatically choo- ses the most economic mode of operation. With optional pool and fresh water heating. ThermoCond® Type 35 with asym- metric heat exchanger for larger public swimming pool halls and in- door water parks. Ideal for existing pools where plant room space or access is limited. ThermoCond® Type 38 with coun- terfl ow heat exchanger for larger public swimming pool halls and indoor water parks. Class leading heat recovery effi ciency and du- rability in the aquatic environment delivers the lowest possible life cycle costs. Trisolair® - Wet Change with ex- ceptional heat recovery through the 3-stage recuperator, where the exhaust and outside air are sepa- rated. The unit monitors return air conditions to automatically adjust the airfl ow. Adconair® - Wet Change for larger wet change areas. The counter- fl ow heat exchanger achieves class leading heat recovery ef- fi ciencies. The unit automatically controls the temperature, humidity and airfl ow with minimum energy consumption. Adsolair® with two stage recupe- rative heat recovery and indirect “adiabatic” cooling. Environmen- tally friendly cooling is achieved by evaporation of water. Resolair® regenerative units achieve heat recovery effi ciencies in excess of 90%. They are ideally suited for conditioning sports halls,houses, hotels, shops, theat- res, cinemas, museums and many other applications. Resolair® - Passivhaus regenera- tive units meet Passivhaus stan- dards for heat recovery and power consumption. Trisolair® with three stage recu- perative heat recovery for the air conditioning of houses, small hotels and other room spaces. Adconair® - Passivhaus with coun- terfl ow recuperator, separates outside and exhaust air paths re- sulting in suitability for large scale Passivhaus applications. The heat recovery effi ciency and power consumption meet Passivhaus standards. Adcoolair® air conditioning units for datacentres and other applica- tions with high heat gains. Free cooling and indirect adiabatic cooling meet a signifi cant propor- tion of the cooling requirement to achieve the lowest possible PUE and life cycle costs. Menerga Ltd 29 Millers Road Warwick CV34 5AE tel. +44 (1926) 621770 fax. +44 (1926) 621771 email. sales@menerga.co.uk www.menerga.co.uk Adsolair® Resolair® Adconair® Type 76 Adcoolair® Datacenter Trisolair®
