
==============bakkafrost_sustainability_report_2017.pdf -- 1977372==============
HEALTHY LIVING SUSTAINA BILITY REPORT 2017 www.bakkafrost.com/sustainability Bakkafrost at a glance 3 Our sustainability story so far 4 Our vision for healthy living 5 Healthy business: Our commitments 7 Healthy business: Growing with our customers 10 Healthy people: Our commitments 11 Healthy people: Supporting our best people 14 Healthy salmon: Our commitments 15 Healthy salmon: Thriving side-by-side 18 Healthy environment: Our commitments 19 Healthy environment: Fashion meets salmon farming 24 Healthy communities: Our commitments 25 Healthy communities: Taking on plastic pollution 27 About this report 28 WHAT’S IN THIS REPORT  This document gives an overview of Bakkafrost’s new  sustainability plan, including our new framework and key  2018-2020 commitments. It also reviews key progress  made to date and performance for the reporting period  1 January to 31 December 2017. As the biggest salmon  farmer in the Faroe Islands, we believe we have a  responsibility to manage and report our impacts on the  local economy, society and the environment. Our new  plan builds on the work we have been doing with a  renewed ambition to become a leader in our field.  To find out more, please visit  www.bakkafrost.com/sustainability Content 2RETURN TO CONTENTS 21% salmon  sales to Eastern  Europe 17% salmon  sales to Asia 18% salmon  sales to USA 44% salmon  sales to EU Bakkafrost at a Glance BAKKAFROST Salmon, packaging, fishmeal, oil and feed producer Location: Faroe Islands  Headquarters: Glyvrar, Eysturoy  Listed on: Oslo Børs  Brands: Bakkafrost and Havsbrún  1,104 employees (960 full time equivalent) Business to business Longest integrated supply chain in the industry FISHMEAL  450 tonnes of fishmeal daily capacity  FISH OIL  300 tonnes of fish oil daily capacity FARMING 21 farming sites operating across 17 fjords FISH FEED 700 tonnes of fish feed daily capacity  HATCHERIES 14 million smolts annual capacity  HARVESTING 54.6 thousand tonnes of salmon harvested in 2017 PROCESSING 130,000 tonnes in primary and 40,000 tonnes in  secondary annual processing capacity SALES 3.8 DKK billion operating revenues for salmon,  fishmeal, oil and feed A-17 A-19 & A-92 A-15 & A-16 A-04 A-12 A-72 A-73S-08 S-04 S-03 A-21 A-11 A-63 A-13 A-25 A-57 A-71 A-43 A-06 A-80 A-05 A-81 PACKAGING 70,000 tonnes annual salmon packaging capacity  FSV (FARMING SERVICE VESSELS) 4 live fish carriers and two service vessels 147 190 BAKKAFROST HEADQUARTERS HAVSBRÚN S-21 S-24 S-16 Map excludes  farming sites  not in operation  in 2017 125 BAKKAFROST AT A GLANCE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 3RETURN TO CONTENTS OUR SUSTAINABILITY STORY SO FAR Our sustainability story so far 2010 Havsbrún became first feed  factory to receive GLOBAL  G.A.P. certification  2014 Increased transparency  through public reporting to  the Global Salmon Initiative 2015 Bakkafrost became the first  Faroese company to get ASC  certification at a site and ASC  Chain of Custody across value  chain 2016  Two sites ASC certified 2017 Moved to new consoli- dated site, reducing our  carbon footprint from  harvest and processing,  through efficiencies 2003 Faroese Veterinary  model introduced,  reducing mortality  from 18% to 6%  (source: www.avrik.fo) 2013 Bakkafrost became  founding member of  the Global Salmon  Initiative 2015 Havsbrún became the first  company to start filtering  all the fish oil produced  for feed of dioxin and  DL-PCBs 2015 RS IFFO certification  awarded to our meal  factory at Havsbrún 2017 MSC Chain of Custody  standard awarded to  meal and oil division at  Havsbrún 2017 Four sites in total ASC certified SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 4RETURN TO CONTENTS OUR VISION FOR HEALTHY LIVING Q: 2017 was another successful year for the salmon industry  in the Faroe Islands. What are your main reflections for the  year? RJ: Even with some hurdles on our way in 2017, the year  ended as the best in Bakkafrost’s history. Our company has  developed significant improvements during recent years to  improve sustainable operations, and we know that despite the  areas where we still can improve, we are committed to the  journey of improving sustainability in our operations. The  learning curve has been steep and a big effort has been taken  by our employees to amend and change operations into a  higher level of sustainability. Several significant improvements  are ahead of us, and we are delighted to see these commence. Q: Despite the continued strong financial results, you are still  facing several significant issues in the industry. What have  you done in 2017 to address these? RJ: To make changes, the first step is to be aware of what  needs to be changed. Bakkafrost is a proud founding member  of Global Salmon Initiative (GSI), where there is a high focus to  lead the way in sustainable salmon farming. Through the  initiative, the salmon industry is demonstrating how an  industry can improve sustainability, and share information in  order to speed up the transformation of the whole industry. I  think this model could be an inspiration for other industries to  follow. We have invested heavily in the value chain over the  last couple of years to improve operations, and we have  shared and received information from other GSI members in  order to speed up the transformation. The introduction of  non-medicinal de-licing treatments, such as lumpfish and  fresh and lukewarm water treatment are all important, but  ensuring we produce fish feed sustainably and that we filter  all fish oil of dioxin and DL-PCBs, are also very important steps  for Bakka frost to take to become more sustainable. Q: Where there any key events in 2017 for Bakkafrost? RJ: Bakkafrost started operations in the new factory in Glyvrar  during 2016 and 2017. This factory will reduce our  environmental impact, as all heating in the building will be by  surplus energy from production of packaging material in the  new factory built next door to the factory. Laying down seven  factories and opening up the brand-new factory in Glyvrar  will significantly cut down transportation of raw materials,  packing material and other items, between the factories. We  estimate an average of 20 fewer truck trips per day. The  changes were carried through without anyone losing their job;  all employees were offered the option of being part of the  new factory. Q: Please tell us about your approach to sustainability at  Bakkafrost. RJ: The salmon industry has faced some difficult challenges  over the years which has made it imperative for us to  understand and take a long-term view of the sustainability  risks facing our business if we are to survive and thrive. We  believe that coming together to address many of these risks  through national initiatives, such as our unique Faroese  Veterinary Model, has given us an advantage, and we are  proud to be leading the way in areas such as fish health and  welfare. Our collaboration with the GSI and our commitment  to various standards and certifications such as the Aquaculture  Stewardship Council (ASC), has also enabled us to work with  the rest of the industry to address systemic issues. We have  not stopped there though. We have set ourselves apart from  our competitors by investing heavily in our integrated supply  chain to produce healthy world-class salmon, as sustainably  as possible. The new plan outlined in this report is setting out  for the first time how we intend to build on our work so far,  with a new vision to promote healthy living.  Our vision for  healthy living Chief Executive Regin Jacobsen’s  2017 Reflections SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 5RETURN TO CONTENTS 
==============CSR_Report_2010_EN.pdf -- 2592360==============
Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 OUR JOURNEY HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan President of the UAE and the Ruler of Abu Dhabi HH General Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme  Commander of the Armed Forces of the UAE 2    Etihad Airways CSR Report 2010 C O N T E N T S From the Chief Executive Officer 4 | Etihad today 6 |  Sustainability vision 8 Corporate social responsibility at Etihad Airways in 2010 9 | Stakeholders 10 |Together 12   Together Greener 14 | Growing Together 22 | Working Together 26 | Giving Together 30  Corporate governance 34 |Global Reporting Initiative 36 Report parameters This report is Etihad Airways’ first report on its  Corporate Social Responsibility performance.   In this document, we outline our policies with regard  to the four core areas of our social responsibility efforts  - the environment, the workplace, our community and  our charitable efforts – and we report on our activities  and results in each of these areas. The formal reporting period is from 1 January 2010 to  31 December 2010; however, as this is our first report,  there are a number of elements of our airline’s eight- year history that we also cover. Etihad has no subsidiaries on which to report; nor do  we have joint ventures on which it would be relevant  to report. How we have defined this report’s content Our CSR team members conducted a series of  workshops and stakeholder engagement exercises  (described in the report) to help define the scope of the  report.   Throughout this process, we used the Global Reporting  Initiative (GRI) frameworks as a guide.  We have  recognised a number of principles in doing so: Scope: •	 The report aims to cover all relevant aspects    of our operations, in the air and on the ground.  In    this first report, our main focus for the on-the-ground    section is the hub of our operations, in Abu Dhabi. Materiality: •	 We believe the report’s scope covers the    major issues that are recognised as important by our    internal and external stakeholders. Data collection and publication: •	 We have aimed    for accuracy in collection of all relevant data,     and we aim to be as transparent as commercial    restrictions allow in publishing such data. Subsidiaries / joint ventures etc: •	 This report covers    the operations of Etihad Airways. Reporting cycle:•	  Our intention is to report on an    annual basis. This report has not been externally assured. For further information on Etihad’s CSR activities, or for  questions on this report, please contact:  csr@etihad.ae Welcome to the first Etihad Airways Corporate Social  Responsibility Report. Etihad is a global ambassador for the Emirate of  Abu Dhabi, and one of its most visible brands in  the international arena. That places a heightened  responsibility on our business to engender and promote  the government’s well-established sustainability agenda,  which affords tremendous value to: The preservation of the Emirate’s cultural traditions and  •   natural environment;  Support for those suffering the effects of disease, poverty  •   or natural disaster around the world; The wellbeing and future prospects of the Emirati people •   and society, and The diversification of Abu Dhabi’s economy to be less  •   reliant on hydrocarbons and equipped to prosper in an    increasingly energy-scarce world. Looking back on just our seventh year of operation, we  have grown to this point rapidly while maintaining a strong  focus on our social and environmental impacts, which we  see as inextricably linked with our financial sustainability.  The safety and wellbeing of our customers and employees  is, at all times, our greatest concern. We allocate  enormous resources to maintaining the highest levels of  flying safety and we provide state-of-the-art health and  wellbeing facilities to our more than 8,000 staff members  and their families. We operate the newest, most environmentally efficient  aircraft in the skies, while our operations teams work  tirelessly to reduce the airline’s fuel burn and emissions  and to identify greener suppliers and partners. We are founding members of the Masdar Institute’s  Sustainable Bioenergy Research Consortium in Abu Dhabi,  providing substantial financial and in kind contributions in  support of research into the use of salt water tolerant plants  as the basis for alternative aviation fuels.  We are a major employer, directly creating opportunities  for employees and their families from more than 120  countries, and indirectly generating thousands of jobs  across the UAE and our network. The airline gives generously to disaster relief efforts and  third-world education initiatives while our employees  also give generously of their own time and resources to  those less fortunate.  Finally, as a driver of tourism to Abu Dhabi we play a  critical role in promoting Abu Dhabi’s rich culture and  heritage. Our Emiratisation program is creating a new and  indigenous generation of aviation professionals. They  receive the industry’s best training, are exposed to all  facets of the airline business, are equipped to lead Etihad  Airways into its very bright future, and are well-placed to  pass on their skills and experiences to future generations  of UAE nationals. The publication of this report is a formalisation of Etihad’s  suite of sustainability programs under one banner. This first  report focuses on our efforts to date. We are committed  to continued an open reporting on an annual basis from  now on. I look forward to a continuing and open dialogue with  our stakeholders. James Hogan From the Chief Executive Officer 4    Etihad Airways CSR Report 2010 Etihad Airways CSR Report 2010     5  6    Etihad Airways CSR Report 2010 Etihad Airways, the national airline of the United Arab  Emirates, is based in its capital Abu Dhabi. Etihad was set  up by government decree to be a key driver of the Emirate’s  economic diversification and growth program, outlined  in the Abu Dhabi 2030 Plan, and is wholly owned by the  government of Abu Dhabi. From 2003 to 2006, Etihad Airways grew faster than any  other airline in commercial aviation history, according to a  study by Booz & Co.  As the three-year start up phase came  to an end, the Board appointed a new management team to  consolidate the airline’s growth and align its development  still more closely with the Emirate’s economic aspirations and  development strategy. We currently serve 72 key business and leisure destinations  in Africa, Asia, Australia, Europe, the Middle East and North  America, operating a young, safe and fuel-efficient fleet of 61  aircraft comprising five fleet types.  With 68 per cent of destinations served by at least daily  frequencies, Etihad carried 7.3 million passengers in 2010  with an average seat load factor of 74 per cent. The network is  further enhanced through the airline’s 32 code-share partners.  The airline’s average on-time performance is 87 per cent with  a track record of 99 per cent dispatch reliability. In 2010 our revenues rose to USD 2.95 billion. In 2011,  we expect continued double-digit revenue growth  to reach  break-even; a remarkable achievement in just eight years. Etihad is safety-certified by the International Airline Transport  Association’s (IATA) and the General Civil Aviation Authority  (GCAA) in the UAE. In July 2008, we announced a then record-breaking order  for up to 205 new aircraft at the Farnborough International  Airshow, including firm orders for 55 Airbus and 45 Boeing  aircraft. The transaction remains one of the largest in  commercial aviation history and will allow Etihad to meet  long-term demand for the period from 2011 to 2020. Today, Etihad is a global business contributing in the region of  AED 25.1 billion (USD 6.8 billion) to the economy, according  to a study conducted by Oxford Economics in 2010. To deliver this performance, Etihad has a skilled management  team and a well defined organisational structure supported by  8,083 employees, representing 123 nationalities. Etihad operates under a rigorous corporate governance  structure. The Board comprises leading figures from Abu  Dhabi’s business community. Our Board members are HH  Sheikh Hamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan (Chairman), HH Sheikh  Khaled bin Zayed Al Nahyan (Vice Chairman), HE Ahmed Ali  Al Sayegh, HE Mohammed Mubarak Fadel Al Mazrouei, HE  Hamad Abdullah Al Shamsi, HE Mubarak Hamad Al Muhairi  and HE Khalifa Sultan Al Suwaidi. Etihad Airways aims to fly 25 million passengers a year to at  least 100 destinations by 2020. Etihad today Etihad Airways CSR Report 2010     7  AIRLINE START-UP Operational Mandate 2003-2004 2011 SELF-SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Brand•  Product and service•  Network reach/connectivity•  Strong growth•  Revenue maximisation•  Cost minimisation•  Pay for performance •  2006-2007 Financial•  Reporting •  Mitigate financial risk•  Start up work force•  Governance•  COMMERCIAL MANDATE  2008-2009 LARGE AIRCRAFT ORDER   Network/Fleet •  Capital plan to   •   accommodate fleet order Linkage to Abu Dhabi Plan•  Major hiring ramp up •  Change in leadership  •   structure  Etihad development 6x B777-300ER 11x A340-500/600 19x A330-200/300 15x A319/320 2x MD11F 2x A330-200F 2x A300-600F Current fleet   at December 2010 10x A380 10x B777 25x A350 35x B787 3x A330 20x A320 Aircraft on order  at December 2010* * Firm deliveries, excluding 105 options and purchase rights 
==============CSR_Report_2011_EN.pdf -- 4493569==============
COLLABORATING FOR CHANGE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 2    Etihad Airways Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Etihad Airways Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011  3  From the President and Chief Executive Officer 6 | Etihad Airways 8 | Executive Team 9 | Sustainability at Etihad Airways 10  Route map 12 | Collaborations and conversations 14 | Together 16 | Greener Together 18 | Growing Together 36 | Working Together 40   Giving Together 46 |  Corporate governance 48 | Awards 50 CONTENTS Etihad Airways P.O. Box 35566,  Khalifa City,  Abu Dhabi United Arab Emirates Telephone: + 9712 511 0000 Fax: + 9712 511 1200 Website: www.etihad.com Scope of reporting Together, Etihad Airways’ sustainability  report, is published once a year in Eng- lish and Arabic, and covers the airline’s  sustainability strategy and performance  for a calendar year from 1 January to  31 December 2011, unless otherwise  noted.  Activities of the airline’s outstations,  subsidiaries and joint ventures have  not been included in this report unless  specifically mentioned. An electronic version of the report is  accessible on the airline’s website at  www.etihad.com.  The report has not been independently  audited but reference is made to the  Global Reporting Initiative, GRI G3 Sus- tainability reporting guidelines. Where  GRI indicators are addressed they are  referenced as a footnote next to the GRI  symbol. For more information about this report,  please contact : Anne Tullis, Head of  CSR and Sustainability, Etihad Airways  P O Box 35566, Abu Dhabi UAE atul- lis@etihad.ae +9712 511 1031 or visit  the website at www.etihadairways.com   4    Etihad Airways Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Etihad Airways Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011  5  HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan President of the UAE and the Ruler of Abu Dhabi HH General Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme  Commander of the Armed Forces of the UAE Board of Directors  HH Sheikh Hamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan (Chairman) HH Sheikh Khaled bin Zayed Al Nahyan (Vice Chairman) HE Mohammed Mubarak Fadel Al Mazrouei HE Ahmed Ali Al Sayegh HE Mubarak Hamad Al Muhairi HE Hamad Abdullah Al Shamsi HE Khalifa Sultan Al Suwaidi  Etihad Airways 6    Etihad Airways Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Etihad Airways Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011  7  As a driver of tourism, we play a critical  role in promoting the Emirate’s rich  culture and heritage.  In 2011 Etihad contributed US$ 7  billion (9.6 per cent of Abu Dhabi’s  non-oil GDP (or 3.8 per cent of total  GDP), supporting around 104,000 (or 8  per cent) of non-oil jobs throughout the  Emirate. In 2011 we reinvigorated our approach  to customer engagement through the  newly established Guest Experience  department. July 2011 saw the launch  of a new initiative to encourage  passengers to ‘Tell Us What You Think’.  This feedback will form the basis for  an ongoing program of change in  productivity and performance across the  customer journey to ensure we maintain  the standards that have assured our  position as the World’s Leading Airline  for three consecutive years. In the year since the publication of our  last report we have made good progress  on our journey towards sustainability.  I look forward to continuing an open  and productive dialogue with all our  stakeholders in the coming year. James Hogan President and Chief Executive Officer 2011 drew to a close on a high point  with the attainment of our first year of  profitability – a major milestone in our  eight year history, and the crowning  achievement of a busy and successful  year.  This result is all the more significant in  light of the testing global environment  in which it was achieved. The year  was marked by a succession of natural  disasters, the unprecedented civilian  uprisings in the Middle East and North  Africa, a persistent sovereign debt crisis  across Europe and high oil prices.  Against this backdrop Etihad Airways  delivered earnings before interest  and tax (EBIT) of US$137 million, on  revenues up 36 per cent to US$4.1  billion. Net profit for the year came in at  US$14 million. However, we should not and do  not measure our success only in  commercial terms. As an organisation  we aim to be completely transparent  and open to a holistic evaluation - not  only on our bottom line, but more  importantly, on how we engage with  our staff, our customers and our  business partners, and on our integrity  in dealing with the industry’s impacts on  the environment. Etihad Airways has a comprehensive  environmental strategy which makes  provision for emissions reduction,  recycling and efficient resource  utilisation. However, as part of an  industry heavily reliant on fossil fuel,  particular focus is placed on emissions  management and climate change as  airlines face increasing pressure to take  proactive measures to reduce their  dependence on oil.  In March, despite strong reservations,  Etihad Airways submitted its emissions  report in compliance with the  requirements of the European Union  Emissions Trading Scheme (EU ETS). The decision in October by the  European Court of Justice to uphold  the legality of the EU ETS was  disappointing. In addition to the  potentially significant financial burden  on our industry, the scheme is divisive  and ineffective in addressing the real  issue of emissions reduction. Along with  local and global industry partners, we  support collaboration to find sensible  and fair solutions and we believe that  a global sectoral approach is needed  to avoid competitive distortion and  negative macro-economic effects on our  industry and wider global economy.  Over and above the significant  investment in our modern fleet of 64  aircraft, we continue to implement  initiatives that drive improved fuel  efficiency and reduce our emissions  and this is clearly reflected in annual  efficiency improvements across our  fleet. Equally importantly, we are  committed to play our role in what  we see as the most important carbon  abatement strategy, namely the  development of a commercially viable  biofuel. Working with the Masdar  Institute, Boeing and Honeywell’s UOP,  we will invest a total of US$2 million  over five years in a biofuel research and  development project investigating salt- tolerant sources of biofuel in the desert  coastal regions of Abu Dhabi.  Etihad Airways employs more  than 10,000 staff representing 125  nationalities. This diverse workforce  is our most important asset, and their  wellbeing is critical to our successful  growth and sustainability. In addition to  very competitive and fair compensation  packages we continue to invest heavily  in making this a good place to work.  In the local community and across  our network, we continue to invest in  people – empowering and developing  individuals to take up meaningful  economic roles in their communities.  This commitment is no better illustrated  in Abu Dhabi than by Etihad Airways’  career development and nationalisation  programs. Further afield, we support  a range of educational initiatives to  develop both business skills and artistic  talent in all disciplines. As a natural consequence of living  and working in a multinational,  cosmopolitan city and by virtue of our  own diverse workforce, we see it as a  priority to connect people and support  projects and initiatives that facilitate  ongoing dialogue and engagement  to promote cultural awareness and  understanding.  As a natural consequence  of living and working  in a multinational,  cosmopolitan city and by  virtue of our own diverse  workforce, we see it as a  priority to connect people,  support projects and  initiatives that facilitate  ongoing dialogue and  engagement to promote  cultural awareness and  understanding.” From the President and Chief Executive Officer 1.1, 1.2 Etihad Airways Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011    9  Etihad Airways 8    Etihad Airways Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Etihad Airways, the national airline of the United Arab Emirates,  based in its capital, Abu Dhabi, was set up by government decree  and made its first commercial flight in November 2003.  Wholly owned by the Government of Abu Dhabi, Etihad Airways  is a global business supporting the Abu Dhabi 2030 Plan and  contributing in the region of US$1.46 billion to the UAE economy. The airline has 35 codeshare partners and serves 84 passenger and  cargo destinations in Africa, Asia, Australia, Europe, the Middle  East and North America operating a young and environmentally- efficient fleet of 66 aircraft.  Etihad Airways has a 29.21 per cent stake in airberlin, Europe’s  sixth largest carrier and a 40 per cent shareholding in Air  Seychelles, the national airline of the Republic of Seychelles. Etihad Airways’ main business is the international air  transportation of passengers. The airline also operates Etihad  Holidays, Hala Abu Dhabi, Etihad Cargo and a global contact  centre organisation as part of its commercial group. Executive Team President and Chief Executive Officer Chief  Operations  Officer Chief  Planning   and Strategy  Officer Chief  People and  Performance  Officer Chief  Commercial  Officer Chief  Financial  Officer • Cargo • Government      Affairs and         Aeropolitical • Network         Planning • Fleet Planning • Revenue      Management  • Amadeus Gulf • Alliances and      Distribution • Marketing • Product • Sales  • Contact      Centres • Etihad Holidays • eCommerce • Service Design      and Delivery • Hala Abu Dhabi • Hala Travel      Management • Airport        Operations • Flight      Operations • Guest    Experience • Safety  • Aviation      Security  • Finance • IT • Supply chain • Property • Treasury  • Investments  • Human        Resources • Facilities • Medical • Audit • Corporate Affairs • Corporate Security • Corporate Strategy • General Counsel and Legal • Program Management Office (PMO) US$4.1 billion TOTAL REVENUE  36% US$29.6 billion PASSENGER REVENUE  US$651 million CARGO REVENUE  25.7% 8.3 million PASSENGER NUMBERS  17% 38.7 billion REVENUE PASSENGER  KILOMETRES 15.8% 51 billion AVAILABLE SEAT KILOMETRES 13% 75.8 per cent SEAT FACTOR 1.8% 64 aircraft FLEET SIZE 12.3% 9,038 NUMBER OF  EMPLOYEES 15.1%23.9% 2 
==============CSR_Report_2012_EN.pdf -- 2038710==============
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 1 FOR A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 2 HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan President of the UAE and the Ruler of Abu Dhabi HH General Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme   Commander of the Armed Forces of the UAE Board of Directors  HH Sheikh Hamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan (Chairman) HH Sheikh Khaled bin Zayed Al Nahyan (Vice Chairman) HE Mohammed Mubarak Fadel Al Mazrouei HE Ahmed Ali Al Sayegh HE Mubarak Hamad Al Muhairi HE Hamad Abdullah Al Shamsi HE Khalifa Sultan Al Suwaidi  ETIHAD AIRWAYS CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 3 Report parameters Etihad Airway’s Corporate Social Responsibility report provides information on the  airline’s environmental, sustainability and social efforts for the calendar year 2012  beginning January 1 and ending December 31. The report is published annually in  English and Arabic and covers our four areas of implementation – the environment, the  workplace, the community and our charitable enterprises – collectively referred to as  “TOGETHER.” The activities of the airline’s joint ventures and subsidiaries are not included in the details  of this report unless specifically mentioned. The report has not been independently audited, but reference is made to the Global  Reporting Initiative, GRI G3 sustainability reporting guidelines.  For more information about this report or about Etihad Airways’ CSR activities, please  contact us at CSRetihad@etihad.ae. Contents From the President and Chief Executive Officer Etihad Airways Our Fleet Route Map Stakeholders Sustainability TOGETHER • Greener Together • Growing Together • Working Together • Giving Together Ethics & Compliance Corporate Governance CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 4 As the national airline of the United Arab Emirates,  Etihad Airways is committed to fulfilling its role in  the implementation and success of the Abu Dhabi  Plan 2030. The government understands the vital  role the aviation industry plays in the establishment  of a diverse and global economy, and so our role  is not only to deliver sustained profitability and  great service, but also to ensure that we create a  sustainable future for the people of the UAE.  Throughout 2012, we focused on effective  communication and cohesive collaboration with  our stakeholders, in an ongoing effort to effect  change, influence behaviour and raise awareness.  One of our highest priorities is the protection and  sustainability of the environment, and we continue  to work within the industry to develop solutions for  managing global aviation emissions. We recognise  the potential of biofuels to decarbonise significantly  our industry and we aggressively support research  into this vital area. We flew our first Boeing 777  delivery flight of 2012 using a mixture of regular fuel  and biofuel derived from waste cooking oil.   During 2012 we made significant strides in improving  the efficiency of our aircraft. Our efforts to date have  resulted in an efficiency improvement of seven per  cent on our passenger aircraft compared to 2011,  and a commendable improvement of nearly 25 per  cent since 2006. Yet our efforts in all these areas are only as strong  as the group of people committed to implementing  these efforts: our employees. By the end of 2012,  Etihad Airways employed 10,656 people, and their  health, welfare and continuing education is crucial  to the continued success of this business. We  consider it an absolute necessity to ensure that  our employees have the utmost in quality care,  instruction and professional services available to  them.  In addition to the welfare of our employees, Etihad  Airways is also committed to serving our local  and global community through humanitarian and  philanthropic initiatives. During 2012, we provided  free tickets and excess baggage for benevolent  causes, transported goods for humanitarian relief,  sponsored programs to support cultural traditions,  and encouraged staff and community participation  in health and wellness activities. While this CSR report looks back on our  achievements and challenges for 2012, we  continue to look forward to both the predicted and  unforeseen challenges that lie ahead. We remain  committed to open and ongoing dialogue with all  of our stakeholders, and we remain determined to  work, grow and give to create a greener, sustainable  future TOGETHER. From the  President and Chief Executive Officer James Hogan President and Chief Executive Officer “We are keenly aware of  our potential to have either  a positive or negative  impact on the communities  in which we operate. Our  CSR strategy is designed to  ensure that we implement  best practice in the fields  of sustainability and social  responsibility.” - James Hogan,  President and Chief Executive Officer CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 5 Etihad Airways Etihad Airways, the national airline of the United Arab Emirates, is based in its capital city of Abu  Dhabi. The airline was established in 2003 by government decree in recognition of the critical role  the aviation industry plays in a diverse global economy. Etihad Airways is wholly owned by the  government of Abu Dhabi and is considered key to the economic success of the Abu Dhabi Plan  2030. At year end the airline’s network extended to 86 passenger and cargo destinations in the Middle  East, Africa, Europe, Asia, Australia and the Americas. The airline had 41 codeshare partners and  carried more than 10 million passengers on its fleet of 70 Airbus and Boeing aircraft. Etihad Airways holds a 29.21 per cent share in airberlin, Europe’s sixth largest carrier; a 40 per cent  share in Air Seychelles, the national carrier of the Republic of Seychelles; a nine per cent share in  Virgin Australia; and a 2.987 per cent share in Aer Lingus. Although the airline’s primary focus is the international transportation of passengers, Etihad  Airways also operates other ventures, including Etihad Holidays, Hala Abu Dhabi, Etihad Cargo,  and four contact centres. Our Fleet At the end of 2012, Etihad Airways operated a total  fleet of 70 aircraft, comprising 64 passenger aircraft  and six dedicated freighters. The size of the fleet,  measured by Available Seat Kilometres, increased by  20 per cent on the previous year. In 2012, Etihad Airways took delivery of seven new  aircraft, including three Airbus A320-200s and four  Boeing 777-300ERs. 
==============CSR_Report_2013_EN.pdf -- 3453050==============
INTRODUCTION GROWING TOGETHER WORKING TOGETHER GREENER TOGETHER GIVING TOGETHER CONTENTS FOR A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE Building the Future INTRODUCTION GROWING TOGETHER WORKING TOGETHER GREENER TOGETHER GIVING TOGETHER CONTENTS HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan President of the UAE and the Ruler of Abu Dhabi HH General Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme   Commander of the Armed Forces of the UAE BOARD OF DIRECTORS  HH Sheikh Hamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan (Chairman) HH Sheikh Khaled bin Zayed Al Nahyan (Vice Chairman) HE Mohammed Mubarak Fadel Al Mazrouei HE Ahmed Ali Al Sayegh HE Mubarak Hamad Al Muhairi HE Hamad Abdullah Al Shamsi HE Khalifa Sultan Al Suwaidi  ETIHAD AIRWAYS INTRODUCTION GROWING TOGETHER WORKING TOGETHER GREENER TOGETHER GIVING TOGETHER CONTENTS CONTENTS INTRODUCTION WORKING TOGETHER GREENER TOGETHER GIVING TOGETHER GROWING TOGETHER INTRODUCTION GROWING TOGETHER WORKING TOGETHER GREENER TOGETHER GIVING TOGETHER CONTENTS REPORTING PARAMETERS ETIHAD AIRPORT SERVICES Etihad Airway’s Corporate Social Responsibility report provides  information on the airline’s sustainability efforts for the calendar year  2013, beginning January 1 and ending December 31.  The report is published annually in English and Arabic and covers the  four elements of our sustainability framework – the environment, the  workplace, the community and our charitable enterprises – collectively  referred to as ‘TOGETHER’. For more information about this report or about Etihad Airways’ CSR  activities, please contact us at CSRetihad@etihad.ae. In early 2013, Etihad Airways acquired three entities from the Abu Dhabi  Airports Company. The three companies, formally Abu Dhabi Airport  Services (ADAS), Abu Dhabi In-Flight Catering (ADIFC) and Abu Dhabi  Cargo Company (ADCC), have been renamed as Etihad Airport Services. This report provides some coverage of the activities of these entities,  with more comprehensive reporting planned for 2014. The activities of the airline’s equity alliances, joint ventures and other  subsidiaries are not included in the details of this report. INTRODUCTION GROWING TOGETHER WORKING TOGETHER GREENER TOGETHER GIVING TOGETHER CONTENTS As one of the world’s fastest-growing companies, we  strive to ensure our performance each year is better  than the last. This was certainly the case in 2013, when  Etihad Airways’ record passenger and cargo volumes  led to total revenues of US$6.1 billion, resulting in our  third consecutive year of net profit, up 48 per cent  year-on-year to US$62 million. The impressive results, which coincided with our  10th anniversary, were testament to the success  of Etihad Airways’ strategy, based on the three  fundamental pillars of organic growth, codeshare  partnerships and equity investments in other  airlines.  It is essential that such growth is achieved in a  responsible manner and remains aligned with our  sustainability vision, which incorporates the needs of  our people, the communities in which we operate, and  our planet. We must also deliver on our mandate to  operate a safe airline that is best-in-class, profitable  and supports the economic development of our   home, Abu Dhabi.  At the close of 2013, Etihad Airways employed more  than 13,535 people within the core airline, an increase  of 27 per cent over the previous year. Almost 1,500  employees within the core airline alone are UAE  nationals, 17 per cent  more than 2012. I am proud to report that, on the back of this  success, our graduate manager program has been  developed to reflect the growth of our equity alliance  partnerships. Following the program’s extension to Air  Seychelles in 2011, last year we also included Air Serbia  graduates.  Supporting our employees is very important to Etihad  Airways. Our ‘MyEy’ employee survey has already  indicated that the vast majority of staff are proud to  be part of Etihad Airways and last year we focused on  areas of improvement including management training  and communication. Also as part of our CSR efforts in 2013, we worked  successfully with the global airline community to  influence the International Civil Aviation Organization  FROM OUR  PRESIDENT AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER ‘Our business continues  to grow and this needs to  be done sustainably.’ - James Hogan,  President and Chief Executive Officer 
==============CSR_Report_2014_EN.pdf -- 13722776==============
 CSR  PROGRESS REPORT COMMUNITY  ENGAGEMENT AND  THE ENVIRONMENT  ASSETS AND OPPORTUNITIES-   MAKING THE MOST OF WHAT WE’VE GOT  From our PCEO  Our recent achievements in community engagement and environmental protection  reflect just how much we have grown as an airline since our formation in 2003. As well as increasing our network, growth represents the increased impact we are  able to have on local communities, made possible by our employees and their  untiring enthusiasm to make a difference. Our employees demonstrated ongoing  community commitment, with many involved in charity activities of their own  accord and through our newly launched iVolunteer program. Innovation is an area in which we excel as we push the boundaries of the status  quo in commercial air travel.  This is particularly evident in our efforts to shape  regional discussion on aviation biofuels. The last few years have seen us play a vital role in developing a sustainable  aviation biofuel industry in the UAE.  This helped to add the UAE to the small list  of countries that have produced and flown on their own aviation biofuel– a major  milestone for the airline and for the UAE, as the program supports Abu Dhabi’s  Vision 2030 and the UAE National Innovation Strategy.  Growth also represents maturity.  We recognise the need for an evolution in our CSR  approach, formalising our efforts to ensure the delivery of long-term humanitarian  and charity commitments as part of our role as a global corporate citizen. The progress we have made enables a strong foundation for further achievement  in the future. ‘Our business continues to  grow and this needs to be  done sustainably.’ James Hogan  President and  Chief Executive Officer We make progress as we seize new opportunities to help make a difference to the industry and  within communities in which we operate.   This report highlights some of these initiatives, with a focus on community engagement, charity  support and environmental impact. It outlines our commitments and explains how we use our  airline assets more fully to ensure we are truly making the most of what we’ve got. Linden Coppell, Head of Sustainability Etihad Airways works with key stakeholders  to implement its ‘Together’ Corporate  Social Responsibility (CSR) program. ‘Together’ is built on four key pillars:  
==============CSR_Report_2017_EN.pdf -- 3092668==============
SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW Future  proof ing  our  bus iness BOARD OF DIRECTORS His Excellency Mohamed Mubarak Fadhel Al Mazrouei - Chairman His Excellency Ahmed Ali Al Sayegh His Excellency Mohamed Khalifa Al Mubarak His Excellency Mohamed Hareb Sultan Al Yousef His Excellency Hamad Abdulla Al Shamsi His Excellency Khalifa Sultan Al Suwaidi His Excellency Ahmed Ali Matar Al Romaithi SCOPE Headquartered in Abu Dhabi, Etihad  Aviation Group is a diversified global  aviation and travel group with a  business model driven by partnership  and an innovative approach to growth.  Etihad Aviation Group comprises five  business divisions – Etihad Airways,  the national airline of the United Arab  Emirates; Etihad Airways Engineering;  Etihad Airport Services; Hala Group and  Airline Equity Partners.  The primary focus of this report is  on the airline operations and the  corporate activities of Etihad Aviation  Group and its business divisions. The  activities of equity partners and joint  ventures are not included. A MESSAGE FROM THE GROUP CEO Sustainability continues to be a high priority for  responsible businesses and this is no exception  for Etihad Aviation Group. We continue to  ensure our compliance to regulations, but are  also cognisant of future challenges and other  expectations as a global business. The potential impacts of international aviation  activity on the environment continue to  be a concern and remain a priority of the  sustainability agenda.  We work effectively at improving our fuel  efficiency, saving 62,000 tonnes of fuel in 2017  amounting to nearly 195,000 tonnes of carbon  dioxide savings. But we know this is not enough,  and as such have continued to support the  ICAO Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme  for International Aviation (CORSIA) which we  believe is the most effective method to manage  emissions from international civil aviation. All  being well, we will start collecting data for this  system in 2019. As the UAE is signatory to the  scheme in its initial voluntary phases, we will  be obliged to purchase carbon offsets to cover  post 2020 emissions growth, thereby supporting  the industry’s ‘Carbon Neutral Growth 2020’ goal. Sustainable aviation fuels are key to achieving  carbon neutral growth in our industry. With a  focus on developing sustainable feedstock  in the absence of traditional arable land and  without the need for freshwater, we harvested  our first oil-rich seeds from the ‘seawater energy  and agriculture’ pilot facility. Our first flight using  the resulting fuel is being planned. Partnerships are essential to ensure a  sustainable future and our outreach with  government, industry and community partners  is extensive, with many of the projects tying in  to our commitment to 2017 as the Year of Giving  and 2018 as the Year of Zayed. We are proud of our accomplishments, and our  commitment to sustainability, which we believe  is essential for the future of the business. What does sustainability  means to us? We see sustainability as a business approach  that creates long-term stakeholder value by  taking into consideration every dimension  of how our business operates – not just our  finances, but also our real and perceived  social and environmental impacts. In short,  sustainability is good business sense that  allows the business to provide tangible value  to global development. To put this into practice, we take a holistic  approach to sustainability. This means that  we try to place sustainability at the core of  our business, integrate it into our day-to-day  operations and practices, and embed it in  every layer of business thinking, planning and  execution. Stakeholder engagement plays a key role - for  our efforts to be truly meaningful, we need  to prioritise those issues that are important  not only to the business but also to our  stakeholders. We continually review the material social,  environmental, economic and governance  issues from the perspective of internal and  external stakeholders. The Sustainability  Advisory Board meets four times each year  to ensure the continued appropriateness of  the sustainability strategy and consists of a  number of senior staff from core areas of the  business. 5 