ANNUAL REPORT
2017 Contents

Active Biotech in brief 
Comments from the CEO 

Directors’ Report 

G R O U P
Income statement 
Consolidated statement  
of cash flows 
Statement of consolidated  
comprehensive income 
Consolidated statement of  
financial position 
Statement of changes  
in consolidated equity 

3 
4 

6 

20
20 
   
20 

20 
 
21 

21
21
21 

PA R E N T   CO M PA N Y
Income statement 
Cash-flow statement 
Statement of comprehensive  
income 
22 
Balance sheet 
22 
Statement of changes  
 
in Parent Company’s equity 
23 
Notes to the financial statement 
Auditors’ report 
42 
Summary of financial development  47 

The share 
Intellectual property rights 
Corporate Governance Report 
Board of Directors and auditors 
Executive Management 
Glossary 
Business concept, objectives  
and business strategy 

48 
51 
52 
56
57
58
59 
 

Financial information
May 17, 2016
Interim report (Q1) 
May 17, 2018
Annual General Meeting 
August 9, 2018
Interim report (Q2) 
Interim report (Q3) 
November 15, 2018
Year-end report for 2018 February 14, 2019 
Financial information can be requested 
from  
Active Biotech AB, PO Box 724, SE-220 07 
Lund, Sweden.  
Telephone +46 (0)46 19 20 00
Information can also be obtained from the 
company’s website www.activebiotech.com.

This Annual Report contains forward-looking  
information regarding Active Biotech. Although 
we believe that our expectations are based on 
reasonable assumptions, forward-looking state-
ments could be affected by factors causing the 
actual outcome and trend to differ materially 
from the forecast. The forward-looking state-
ments comprise various risks and uncertainties. 
There are significant factors that could cause the  
actual outcome to differ considerably from that 
expressed or implied by these forward-looking 
statements, some of which are beyond our 
control. These include the risk that patent rights 
might expire or be lost, exchange-rate move-
ments, the risk that research and development 
operations do not result in commercially success-
ful new products, competition effects, tax risks,  
effects resulting from the failure of a third party 
to deliver products or services, difficulties in  
obtaining and maintaining official approval for 
products, and environmental responsibility risks. 

Annual General Meeting

The Annual General Meeting of Active Biotech AB (publ) is to be held 
on Thursday, May 17, 2018 at 5:00 p.m. at the company’s premises at 
Scheelevägen 22, Lund, Sweden. Shareholders who wish to participate  
in the Meeting must (a) be recorded in the register of shareholders  
maintained by Euroclear Sweden AB on Friday, May 11, 2018, and (b) 
notify the company of their intention to participate in the Meeting not 
later than Friday, May 11, 2018.

Shareholders who have trustee-registered shares must temporarily  

re-register the shares in their own name with Euroclear Sweden to  
be entitled to participate in the Meeting. This registration must be  
completed not later than Friday, May 11, 2018. Accordingly,  
shareholders must inform the trustee of this request in ample time  
prior to this date.

Notice of participation
Notice of participation can be made in writing to Active Biotech AB 
(publ), Attn. Susanne Jönsson, PO Box 724, SE-220 07 Lund, Sweden, 
by telephone on +46 (0)46 19 20 00 or by e-mail to susanne.jonsson@
activebiotech.com. The notice is to include name, personal/corporate  
registration number, number of shares held, daytime telephone number 
and, if applicable, the number of advisers (two at the most) that will  
accompany the shareholder at the Meeting.

The notice of the Annual General Meeting is available in its entirety 

on the company’s website www.activebiotech.com.3
3

A
C

T

I

V

E

 

B

I

O
T

E

C
H

 

I

N

 

B

R

I

E

F

Active Biotech in brief

Active Biotech develops novel pharmaceuticals in the areas of neurodegenerative diseases and cancer where the  
immune system plays a crucial role. Our project portfolio contains both small molecules that are orally active  
immunomodulatory agents and antibody based immunotherapy. Laquinimod, licensed to Teva Pharmaceutical  
Industries Ltd., is in clinical Phase II development for the treatment of Huntington’s disease, a rare neuro­
degenerative disease with a high medical need. ANYARA, licensed to NeoTX Therapeutics Ltd., is being developed 
to treat solid tumors. In addition, activities are conducted to identify strategic and competent partners for  
ensuring the continued development of tasquinimod in multiple myeloma, paquinimod for systemic sclerosis  
and the early preclinical projects in the SILC program.

Laquinimod is an oral immunomodulatory investi- 

gational drug with a novel mechanism of action,  
preventing neurodegeneration and inflammation  
in the central nervous system. Laquinimod is being  
developed for daily treatment of Huntington’s disease,  
a rare neurodegenerative disease.

Currently, a Phase II study in Huntington’s disease  
is ongoing with results expected in second half of 2018. 
Laquinimod has been granted orphan drug designation for 
this indication by the FDA, which provides for seven years 
of market exclusivity in the event of future registration.
  Active Biotech has an agreement with the Israeli  
company Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd since 2004 
covering the worldwide development and commerciali-
zation of laquinimod.

ANYARA is a tumor-targeting immunotherapy that  
enhances the ability of the immune system to recognize 
and kill tumor cells. Active Biotech has an agreement with 
NeoTX Therapeutics Ltd since October 2016 for the  
global development and commercialization of ANYARA 
for the treatment of cancer.
 
trial of ANYARA combined with a PD-1 checkpoint  
inhibitor in patients with advanced cancer.

Preparations are in progress to commence a clinical  

Tasquinimod is a once-daily, oral immunomodulatory 

compound that reduces a tumor’s ability to grow and  
spread. Tasquinimod is being developed for the treatment 
of multiple myeloma, a rare form of blood cancer with  
a high medical need. Patents in key markets have been  
granted, providing protection for the use of tasquinimod 
in malignant blood disorders, specifically acute forms  
of leukemia and multiple myeloma, until 2035. Further-
more, the FDA has granted orphan drug designation  
for tasquinimod for the treatment of multiple myeloma, 
which provides for seven years of market exclusivity in  
the event of future registration.
  Tasquinimod shows compelling data in experimental 
models of multiple myeloma and the next step is to  
confirm proof of concept in a clinical Phase I/II study.  
Active Biotech is now seeking a collaboration partner  
for the further development of tasquinimod.

S100A9 is expressed in the tumor microenvironment 

SILC (S100A9 Inhibition by Low molecular weight 
Compounds) is a preclinical immuno-oncology project  
focused on S100A9 as the target molecule for the treat-
ment of cancer.
 
and is involved in the development of cancer through  
recruitment and activation of specific immune cells that 
counteract the T cells’ ability to attack and eradicate the 
tumor. S100A9 is also involved in the establishment of 
pre-metastatic niches and in the formation of new blood 
vessels, which provide nutrition and oxygen into the  
growing tumor.
 
Small substances that block the function of S100A9 
could represent a new therapeutic alternative to help the 
body’s own immune system fight cancer.
  Chemical libraries of substances have been screened  
for binding to this target molecule and lead substances 
with good properties for further development have been 
identified. Three international patent applications have 
been filed for the purpose of obtaining patent protection 
for three, chemically unrelated, substance groups, and  
patents from two patent families have been granted to 
date in Europe and the US.
  Active Biotech is seeking a collaboration partner for 
the further development of the project. 

Paquinimod is a once-daily, oral immunomodulatory 

Paquinimod shows potent effects on fibrosis and  

compound in development for treatment of systemic  
sclerosis, a rare autoimmune disease of the connective  
tissue with a high unmet medical need.
 
inflammation in several experimental models of systemic 
sclerosis and has been granted orphan drug designation  
in both the EU and the US, which provides for ten and 
seven years, respectively, of market exclusivity in the event 
of future registration.
  Active Biotech is seeking a collaboration partner  
with expertise to further develop paquinimod in systemic 
sclerosis.

●●●●4

C

O
M
M
E

N

T

S

 

F

R

O
M

 

T

H

E

 

C

E

O

2017 Comments from the CEO

2017 was a challenging  
year of negative events  
in the MS project with  
laquinimod. At the same  
time, I am pleased with  
what we have achieved  
in other projects where  
important interim goals  
for continued development 
have been achieved.

2017 was the year that we were looking forward to  
positive results with laquinimod from the two ongoing 
MS studies. To our disappointment and that of  
many others, these expectations were not realized.  
We announced with our partner Teva in May that the 
primary endpoint in the CONCERTO study in relapsing 
remitting MS (RRMS) – reducing disability progression 
in patients measured by EDSS – had not been met.  
This was a regrettable result that was crucial to the 
further development of laquinimod in MS. The results 
from the ARPEGGIO Phase II study of laquinimod 
in primary progressive MS (PPMS) were announced
in December. The study did not show any difference  
for the primary endpoint of brain atrophy between  
the group that received laquinimod treatment and  
the group given a placebo. Accordingly, the results  
could not justify continued clinical development of 
laquini mod in PPMS. All in all, this meant that  
following a comprehensive program TEVA ended the  
development of laquinimod in MS. However, the clinical 
development of laquinimod in Huntington’s disease  
will continue and the Phase II study of LEGATO­HD  
is progressing according to plan with results expected  
in the autumn of 2018.

During the year, we demonstrated together with 

NeoTX, our partner for ANYARA, that the combination 
of ANYARA and an immune checkpoint inhibitor, for 
example, Keytruda, generated clear additional effects in 
preclinical tumor models. These results support both 
new patent applications and the future clinical develop­
ment of ANYARA. Preparations are now being made to 
commence a clinical study in ANYARA toward the end  
of 2018.  

In our other projects, we pursued commercial and  
value­creating activities in 2017 to support continued 
development and partnership agreements.

Financing
In February 2018, the Board of Directors decided to imple-
ment a new rights issue of approximately SEK 48 million 
before issue costs. The rights issue is being conducted to  
ensure financial sustainability in order to await the outcome 
of clinical studies and to conduct negotiations with partners 
around the projects.

The rights issue was over subscribed by approximately  
30 percent and provides the company with approximately 
SEK 48 million before issue expenses. The company’s  
existing cash and cash equivalents and liquidity supplement 
from the ongoing sale of the company’s property are expec-
ted to finance operations according to the current business 
plan.

Laquinimod
The CONCERTO study was designed based on the  
results of the two previously conducted Phase III studies, 
ALLEGRO and BRAVO in RRMS. In these studies,  
laquinimod displayed an explicit effect on slowing disability 
progression (Confirmed Disease Progression, CDP) when  
assessed with the Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS). 
Being able to evaluate the effect as a primary endpoint in  
a major study was attractive since it could give laquinimod 
advantages in the market compared with registered therapies. 
Contrary to previous studies, the results of CONCERTO 
showed no effect on CDP, although the secondary relapse- 
related endpoints and MRI parameters were met in line with 
previous studies. Following extensive analysis of the study 
data from all Phase III trials, there is still no full explanation 
for the results of the CONCERTO study. In general, it can 
be said that CDP is a challenging clinical endpoint since  
relatively few such events are normally achieved during a 
limited study period, which could have contributed to the 
lack of effect on the primary results of the study. With patents secured in key markets and orphan drug 
status granted for tasquinimod in multiple myeloma, 
we have created highly favorable conditions for the 
continued advancement of tasquinimod.

5

C

O
M
M
E

N

T

S

 

F

R

O
M

 

T

H

E

 

C

E

O

The ARPEGGIO Phase II study was a proof of concept 
study, whose primary aim was to show the therapeutic  
benefit of laquinimod in patients with PPMS. The primary 
endpoint, brain atrophy, as defined by percent brain volume 
change from baseline to week 48, was not met in the study. 
The time to CDP, a secondary endpoint, was also not met. 
The study results were deemed not to justify continued  
development of laquinimod in PPMS. Ultimately, this  
meant that Teva will not continue the development of  
laquinimod in MS. This decision is naturally a disappoint-
ment after extensive clinical development in MS where 
laquinimod displayed clinical efficacy combined with a  
favorable safety profile. At the same time, only one of the 
three pivotal studies achieved the primarily endpoint, which 
significantly disadvantaged the regulatory potential for  
laquinimod in MS.   

Teva will continue to develop laquinimod in Huntington’s 

disease, a rare neurodegenerative disease, with a very high 
medical need for treatment targeting the actual disease. 
Laquinimod has shown positive effects in preclinical models 
for Huntington’s that could be of importance in slowing the 
neurodegenerative process that is typical for Huntington’s 
disease. The LEGATO-HD Phase II study is the first study 
with laquinimod in this indication and is randomized and 
placebo-controlled and evaluates the daily doses of 0.5  
and 1.0 mg laquinimod as a potential therapy for patients 
with Huntington’s disease. The study was fully enrolled  
before the summer 2017 and the results will be available  
in the second half of 2018. At the beginning of the year,  
the FDA granted laquinimod orphan drug status for the 
treatment of Huntington’s disease, which allows seven years 
of market exclusivity in the event of future registration.

ANYARA
Extensive preclinical data was generated in the ANYARA 
project during the year, demonstrating the combination  
effects of ANYARA and immune checkpoint inhibitors  
such as Keytruda which is a PD-1 inhibitor. The results  
support the hypothesis that ANYARA can enhance the  
effect of such therapy by increasing the immune system’s  
ability to recognize the tumor. The preclinical results led to 
new patent applications to protect the use of ANYARA in 
this combination. If these patents are granted, they would 
provide potential extension of ANYARA patent protection 
until 2036. Preparations for a clinical study of ANYARA  
in combination with a PD-1 inhibitor in patients with vari-
ous forms of advanced cancer are ongoing and the study is 
scheduled to commence in the second half of 2018.

  

Tasquinimod
In the past year, tasquinimod was granted patents for use  
in multiple myeloma in both Europe and the US. With  
patents secured in key markets until 2035 and orphan drug 
status granted in multiple myeloma, we have now created 
highly favorable conditions for the continued advancement 
of tasquinimod. Although new treatments have greatly  
improved prognosis and survival of multiple myeloma  
patients, there is still a significant need for new drugs  
with novel mechanisms of action, such as tasquinimod.  
Discussions with clinical experts and potential partners  
in relation to the continued clinical development and  
commercialization of the project are ongoing.

SILC and Paquinimod
During the past year, we secured product patents in the  
US for two of three patent families in the SILC project. 
Work aimed at clarifying the role of S100A9 as a target  
molecule in immuno-oncology is proceeding and data  
from the SILC project was presented at the scientific  
meeting ”Tumor Models” in London at the beginning of  
December. We are currently focusing on demonstrating 
proof of concept for SILC substances in humanized tumor 
models, which is important for the continued commercial 
activities in the project. 

Commercial activities are in progress in the paquinimod 

project to identify a new partner for continued clinical  
development in systemic sclerosis, where paquinimod has 
orphan drug designation in both the US and Europe.

Closing words
As I look back at the past year, I can say that it has been a 
challenging year with decisive, negative events in the MS 
project with laquinimod together with our partner Teva.  
At the same time, I am pleased with what we have achieved 
in other projects, where we attained important milestones 
for continued development. In 2018 I am looking forward 
to the results of the LEGATO study and recommencing the 
clinical development of ANYARA. Furthermore, we will  
focus on continuing to develop value in the tasquinimod, 
paquinimod and SILC projects. 

In conclusion, I would like to thank all of our employees 
and shareholders for your loyal support over the past year.

Helén Tuvesson, CEO